otic in ways, but um you know, looking back at it I understand why he did what he did, why he challenged me mentally um when things were uncomfortable, right? Like you know, I remember having to swim without goggles. It sucks. Your eyes hurt, right? Like they burn after swimming for 2 hours without goggles. Try to swim a race without goggles. No, it's not fun. Um but after doing that like I I learned. And naturally like my cap rips at the Olympic final as I'm getting ready to get up on the block for the 4 by 200 free relay. I have to naturally calm myself. I asked for uh a teammate's cap and I know that I can't represent his brand and I know I can't represent his name. So I had to flip the cap inside out and just swim with the black cap. But in that moment you're calm because you've prepared for it, right? So like I mean even like visualization, visualization is something that that we did my whole my whole entire career. Uh and it would be three different ways how you want or you would play three different tapes how you want the race to go, how you don't want the race to go and what if, right? And how and and and what if this happens in the race, how do you how do you adapt? How do you adjust, right? So it doesn't matter what happens. Whenever I get there, I'm prepared. If I lose, if my cap rips, my goggles break, they fill up with water, it doesn't matter because my emotions will stay in check. And if you can handle your emotions in the most tense pressured situations, then you're able to be the best version of you, right? So like you know, going back to 2008, I think it was you know, for me I think it was you know, lack of better terms, it was like I I was in the matrix. Like literally time slowed down. Like I was just like, all right, cool. Like I'm more prepared. Let's go. But it's preparation. And it's again, yeah, had I not done those 6 years, I probably don't get the exact results that I had. You know, like we always this is something that that um I always hope that people can relate to, but um when you're trying to accomplish a goal you know, obviously it's not going to happen like that. It's not going to happen overnight. There has to be like little short in-term goals through that process to reach the big goal. So through that process my coach and I would always say you know coming to practice that's a deposit into the bank. Right? And 4 years from now, I hope our bank account is massive because when we go to the Olympic Games, I want to withdraw that whole entire account and just put it on the table and say let's go. Right? So it's it's again, it's just a way of looking at preparation and what you're doing every single day because greatness is really it's just a bunch of small things that are done well stacked upon on top of each other. That's it. It's really not that hard. What You said he was almost psychotic. What's the most psychotic thing he did? >> [sighs] >> I mean but him [clears throat] and I have gotten in so many different arguments and and I mean it's almost like we were like a married couple, you know, just like fighting over like the smallest little things. Like it's crazy. Um I mean >> [sighs] >> I remember there was a time uh I forget how old I was, but I mean like I said, I was a little [ __ ] And we were doing 400s free long course and I was supposed to be going like under 425 or around like 420 and uh I I wasn't. I was just going slower and just pissing him off on purpose. Um and he was like, you're going to go you're going to go these times or we're going to start over. And I had like 10 or 15 seconds before the timer went off where we were about to do the next repeat. And I looked at the clock and I just didn't say anything. And right as I was getting ready to push off I just said, no. I went back under the water >> [snorts] >> and naturally when I was training I always had to bilateral breathe. I had to breathe on both sides. Um so he was on my left side. I'd have to go three right, three left. So I ended up switching it that day cuz I went three on my right and then I went to my left and saw him the first time and I was like, [ __ ] that, I ain't going back to that side. I [laughter] just kept breathing to my right. I'll never forget he came down to the other end and was chasing, throwing his arms up in the air, whistling whistling like crazy. And he threw a bunch of kickboards and pull buoys down on top of me as I was pulling or as I was flip turning. I just kept swimming. I just kept swimming. Um we had a talk shortly after that. >> [laughter] >> Uh we both expressed some frustration, but um you know, again, I think it was just the passion that we both had and and I wouldn't change it because, you know, I'm sure I did some things that that pissed him off and frustrated him throughout our time together and likewise, there were some things that he did that pissed me off and and you know, if you asked me if I would change anything that I did or do it differently in any way, shape, or form, I wouldn't. Um not at all. You know, I think it's it's kind of allowed me to be the person who I am now and feel comfortable in my own skin. So, and I was able to learn a lot through again, the craziness that we went through. I mean, I've thrown water bottles at him. Like, it's it's been bad. Like, I I'm really sorry, Grandpa. Sorry I'm bringing this all out. People have seen videos of it, though. Cuz that was on a video. That was on a documentary that we did. No, it's just it it's it's the passion and again, it's the frustration because for us, we were trying to work in hundreds of a second, right? You know, like two of my Olympic medals were won combined by 5/100 of a second. Right? I won the 2004 100 fly by 4/100 and the 2008 100 fly by a 100. Right place at the right time? Yeah, for sure, but it's also hitting the wall at the right place at the right time with the right amount of force, momentum, and speed, but it's also being able to judge when to go all out and when not over swim a race and this, that, and the other. So, again, it's like everything we did, it was it was a full-blown chess match. And we were able to damn near perfect it. Or I only I broke seven world records and won eight gold medals. It should have been eight for eight in '08, but it was eight for seven in '08. So, but yeah, it was it was awesome. And I think it again, like having the opportunities that I had later in life, whether it's '04, '12, or '16, I don't like talking about '12 cuz I hate that Olympics cuz I didn't swim very well. Um but it wouldn't have been possible without those things that I did back in the early 2000s, right? Like, you know, from '04 or 2000 to '04 and then that transition from '04 to '08 when we were at University of Michigan and and you know, we assembled the training group that we had there with I mean, that was one of the most iconic training groups, you know, in my opinion, that we've had. There was every single day, there was there was a handful of the guys that were just going at each other. And by by saying at each other, it was just competition after competition after competition every single stroke that you took during practice. And it was it was something that I just thrived from. I loved being in that kind of environment. You know what I really love about you and your coach partnership, the more I read about it. I'll tell you what I really love about you and your coach. You both kept each other on very high standards. There was an incident I was reading where he didn't show up because he was sick and you texted him that why would I have a coach if I have to coach myself? >> [laughter] >> So, I said like, I was ruthless. Like, I was absolutely ruthless. I was such a jerk. But it was like any any time that I had the chance to come back at him, I took it. Um and I was like I remember that. I was like, why the hell am I swimming for somebody else? Like, you're my coach. Like, if you're not here, why the [ __ ] am I here? I think I literally said that. Um also to the point because I I knew it would piss him off. Like there would be times where I would just say things on purpose to make him mad. Because it was fun and I just enjoyed it. I enjoyed getting under his skin. And I also knew that if I did ever want to get kicked out and I didn't [clears throat] like the practice that I could make him pissed off and say something and he would he would he would toss me. So, there weren't many times like that. But yeah, I mean, I there I knew what to say um to get a reaction. And that's what I wanted. I wanted a reaction. And one thing that you just mentioned and your coach, you guys did almost every day. There was a video tape technique, the visualization in your head. Walk me through it. If somebody who's watching this right now someone like me who wants to become an absolute champion in whatever they're doing. What [clears throat] is that visualization technique? Like, what would you do sitting down in your room every day? I would just lay down. It would be like you know, like if I'm getting ready to go to practice or, you know, if I just have like 30 minutes to lay down on the couch or lay down on my bed and just visualize, it would just be So, what are you thinking? Let's say just walk me around. Yeah, yeah. It would be like What's going on in your head right now? Like in a perfect situation, like say I'm swimming the 200 butterfly. If I'm swimming the 200 butterfly, like what does a perfect race look like? A perfect race looks like a great start, good entry, eight to 10 dolphin kicks, pop up right before 15 m, take 16 to 17 strokes that first 50, hit the wall with speed and momentum on a full stroke, um get out into open water, kind of make the the rest of the competitors deal with my wake and my waves and make them fight through that so it's harder for them and they have to use more energy. Um hitting the wall, breaking a world record, how the race doesn't or, you know, yeah, I mean, like the perfect scenario. Like, no matter what it is. Are you going in for a work pitch and you're trying to get your company to or you're trying to get another company to sign your company? Yeah, then it's a home run. Like the, you know, how like the perfect video is your vision of it going perfectly how you want it to, how you dream it to be. How you don't want it to go is >> [snorts] >> you get touched out by a 100th of a second because you screwed up a wall or you misjudged a turn or you didn't have the right start or your preparation wasn't good. Your warm-up wasn't good. Right? Like, all of those things. So, it's trying to almost really make sure your ducks are in a in a line and every little small piece of that puzzle is fit into the right spot. And then how the race could go would be what if I wake up and they don't like all of a sudden they don't have the same food that I've been eating every other day. Or what if I wake up 20 minutes late? Or what if my suit rips? Or what if my cap rips? Or what if I get sick? Right? All of these things are already played out. So, once I get to the Olympics or once I get to World Championships, if it does happen, I'm like, all right, cool. If I get sick, Doc, what do I need to do? Right? Like, we got team doctor. Doctor, what do I need to do to make sure I can get out there to compete and be my best? Um all of those Yeah, I mean, it's again, it's it's another form of preparation because I feel like if you get into a situation that you're not prepared for or you haven't thought of, then you're not able to be your best self. So, I guess in a long way of saying it, it's controlling the controllables. You know, like controlling the controllables is something that that a dear friend of mine, Greg Harden, taught me back in 2004. And it it's really just such an easy quote and a powerful quote because you can really relate it to so many things in life. Right? Like if I'm thirsty, right? You saw my water just explode cuz I was trying to break the ice. So, I'm going to have a drink of water. Like, if I'm tired, I'm going to go take a nap or I'm going to go to bed earlier tonight than I did last night. It's literally that simple. What do you need to get ready for a meeting? X, Y, and Z. You have a list. Do those three things. If you don't do those three things, you're not fully prepared. You're going to go to that meeting and you're going to be like, "Ah, [ __ ] I wish I would have done that." Well, tough break cuz you didn't. Right? So, and if you don't learn from doing it that way to get ready for the next time, then what are you doing? Right? So, it's it's it's just it's different ways to look at preparation. And for me, again, like I became obsessed with it because I wanted to have the opportunity to be great. I didn't want anybody else to take that opportunity from me. I wanted to earn it. So, I prepared and I worked harder than anybody else did. Period. But would you play every day in your head that you're winning the perfect race? No, that's just I mean, that's just like that's just for big meets. Like, I'm just doing I'm just visualizing for big meets. I'm not doing it for every day. Like like I'm not laying in bed tonight and being like, "What's a perfect day tomorrow? Not tomorrow. Should I go tomorrow? What's Like, no. Like, it's like it's more it's more just like 6 months before a race, before a big meet. Like you know, just kind of getting ready into that mindset because when that moment comes, again, like, yeah, World Championships, you get a little bit more often than the Olympic Games, but the Olympic Games, you got to wait 4 years. You know how long 4 years is to just have a chance to go compete and represent your country the Olympic stage? Like, it sucks. It's awful. But like, that's what I'm saying. Like, if you're not prepared, somebody else is. Especially at that level. Right? Cuz people do obsess. Right? And winning a gold medal, it's what? To have the chance Well, to win a gold medal, it's less than 1% of 1%. >> [snorts] >> So, but for 6 months, you would play the perfect perfect hiccups, the failure every day in your head. There was an incident where you won a gold even when your goggles almost broke like they were what there was water inside your goggles. You couldn't see there was blackout and you still won. How many times did you play that in your head or how many times did you practice with broken goggles before even you actually get there? Well, I think you know when my coach broke my goggles and I had to swim a race without having a pair of goggles. I think taught me to always have a backup pair and when that happened I was just like oh [ __ ] Okay, I guess I got to figure out what I'm going to do and I think for me at that time I reverted back to what I did in training because every single one of my 200s throughout my career every one of my 200 butterflies throughout my career when I was competing first second third and fourth 50 all were the same strokes. 16 17 18 and then 19 or 20 depending on how many kicks I took off the last one. So I was like all right cool. I'm just going to revert back to what I do because in training we do these things called stroke and time 50s. So if you're trying to go 30 seconds then you take 20 strokes. 29 19 28 18 27 17 So for me naturally I just started counting my strokes after the first well I guess right when I dove in because I realized >> [clears throat] >> I started counting my strokes as soon as I dove in because I realized that they weren't going to stop leaking and also I was unable to take my goggles off. Because when I would swim I would wear my goggles one cap two cap another cap so I couldn't rip all of it off and swim with no cap or goggles it would just it would it just wouldn't be good. So I ended up counting my strokes at the first wall 16 second wall 17 third wall 18 fourth wall is 19 or 20 I don't remember. Um but ended up yeah winning a gold medal breaking a world record um and you can go back and look at that video. I I was honestly pissed after I saw the time. Why? I could have gone faster. I should have gone faster. I I think I could have gone at least a half a second faster than that for sure 100% just because of the goggles. Yeah. I was I was firing on all cylinders going into that Olympic Games. But why would you be pissed? When you broke a world record you won the gold. I wanted to go faster. That's me. Like honestly I didn't hit the goal that I wanted right? The goal the goal is hitting a certain time. It's not winning it's not winning a gold medal because I know if I get to a certain time I'm the only one that's thinking about doing it. I'm the only one that's doing stuff every single day to get there. So if I hit that time the rest will take care of itself. Nobody else nobody else will win that gold medal if I do that time. And what was going on in your head at that microsecond when you knew that goggles have Did you did you go like oh [ __ ] what do >> nothing I can do. I need to do? There's nothing I could do at that point. I couldn't that was out of my control. The only thing I could do was what was in my control and that was try to win the race with what was at hand. I knew I was the most prepared person there. I just had to worry about my stroke. I had to worry about counting my strokes. That's all I did. 16 17 18 and then bang 19 20 ripped off and I was like 151 5 >> [snorts] >> I should have been 150 point. Should be one 150 for sure. I thought honestly like I I truly thought I could break 150 in the 200 butterfly at some point in my career. I only went 151. I think I could have gone a second and a half faster at some point in my career. That's insane even after breaking a world record or winning gold you would not be happy about it. But it's the goals right? Like it's you know like like for me like I I just held myself to such a high standard and I put the most pressure on myself. Like didn't matter what everybody else was saying or doing. The the the one person who put the most amount of pressure on me was me. Because it is in my control right? I'm not going to be able to skip two weeks a month six weeks eight weeks and just wake up one day and break a world record. You have to do the work. If you're not doing the work then skip it. Do something else. Tell me Tell me about that phase which a lot of people call it the alien phase. >> [laughter] >> Which was year 2008 Beijing where you won eight gold medals. You competed in eight races and you won all of them. There's never been an athlete in the world till now who has ever gone that far and have won so many medals. What was what was that phase like that alien phase where everything you touch you would turn it into gold? I mean yeah during those games and like I guess from like 07 08 like those two years like I I truly felt I felt unbeatable in the pool. I really did. Um What did you feel like? Unbeatable. Like I literally felt like there wasn't a single soul on the planet that could touch me that could beat me. Um I just felt like I was super prepared. Um you know everyone says it's like that 10,000 hour mark right? Like I think 2007 was my 10,000 hour mark. Um and then it just it just kept getting better. I mean 2007 those world championships in Melbourne were I mean I might even say performance wise were better than what they were in in in Beijing. Um I mean the times that I did the amount that I was breaking world records by I mean they were body lengths behind me. Um Yeah I mean again it's just it's the preparation that I had done years prior that were showing. That's all it was it's right? Like you know if you go out and buy a piece of property and you want to build a house you can't snap the fingers right? You just got to put it up one brick at a time and that's what I did one day at a time leading up to that point. You know 2004 was you know obviously a learning process for me be yeah it was a great experience winning six gold medals. Um but I think it truly just prepared me for what was coming in 2008 to make sure that I was overly prepared obsessively prepared for every small detail. Um because I knew how hard it was going to be to win seven let alone eight. What was different about that phase? Uh I mean coming off of 2004 obviously you know it was my first gold medal right? So you know 18 19 years of dreaming of winning a gold medal and it happens. Um you win a couple of them. You get off of that Olympic Games and then literally every headline is Michael Phelps fails because he doesn't win seven gold medals and I'm like >> [laughter] >> what are you talking about? Like this is a joke. Um honestly though like uh you know to just have the chance to win one was incredible but you know winning six in an Olympics and then winning eight in the next Olympics. Um Yeah I was I I was just prepared. You know like I mean even even going back to like the the the quote that Ian Thorpe said going into 2008. He said no one will ever gold medals in an Olympic Games. Like that for me is motivation. Right? Like everything I did during that time you know truly was about trying to be as perfect as I could perfect was going eight eight for eight. Um but again like I was competing against somebody who was pretty much fresh every single time right? Like people go to the Olympics and they might swim one or two races. Exactly. >> Right? And I'm swimming a total of 17 races 18 races in eight days. Yeah that was like insane right? That that's fascinating. Like it's a full training week. Like during that week with all of the warm-ups warm-downs so that's that's 2000 2000 meters for warm-up 2500 meters for warm-up 2000 meters for warm-down is doing it twice a day plus all the racing. I mean I'm swimming I was swimming like 60,000 meters during a competition week. There are people that don't even train 60,000 65,000 yards or meters a week period. So again like everything I did from 2000 to the first step I got with Bob from him destroying my strokes and recreating them into what they were throughout my whole entire career got me to that point. >> [snorts] >> So you started competing on 10th August and then 10 11 12 13 there was only like one day I think 15th August was off. I had a morning off. >> Yeah. I had a morning or I had a a morning or an afternoon cuz the finals were in the morning for that Olympics where typically they're in the afternoon or night time. Uh I had one I typically had one session off every every uh every major major competition. Uh Um and and by that point I needed it. Yeah. [laughter] I was so tired by the end of those meets, man. Um You slept Did you sleep the whole day like on 15 when you got got an off between those events? >> Uh no, like during an off day I would wake up normal time. Uh I would I would stay on that schedule, that routine. I would wake up and I would have like a morning like a splash. And then I literally would do 800 to 1,000, like not much. I was supposed to do more, but I never did. Um and I would just go and just kind of feel I'm just feel how I was feeling, see if I needed to get a little massage or whatever I needed to stretch or something before the finals. Um go have lunch, watch a movie, play some games. I don't know. Like we were always playing spades or risk, hearts. Um some kind of game to kill time, but yeah, I mean it was it was a pretty normal day. I wouldn't really I wouldn't think about much and by the time the afternoon came we we always have a team meeting before we would go over to the final session. And you know, from the team meeting it was headphones go on. No one talks to me or I don't talk to anybody. They might talk to me, but I I ignore absolutely every noise. Mhm. Get to the pool about 2 hours before my race, stretch for about half hour, dive in the warm-up pool 90 minutes before my race, and then do my warm-up, get out, dry off, put warm clothes on 30 minutes before my race, get my racing suit on, jump back in the pool for 3 to 500, just kind of stroke play, kind of feel my body, make sure everything's going, get out, walk up for the race 15-20 minutes beforehand, and then bang, that's it. You get either I I mean my races were anywhere from 47 seconds to 4 minutes and 3 seconds. That's it. Did you ever feel like taking an off in that alien phase? Taking off? Yeah. Like an off day of training or maybe just you didn't feel like like today is not the day. I'm sure there must have been at least one day where you must have been >> mean, yeah, but I think the goals that I had were were too big. They were big enough where I couldn't take a day off. I couldn't. What did you tell yourself on the day when you were feeling sick and you didn't want to get out of bed? >> I mean, for me like when I when I would get out of bed, the first things I see are my goal sheets. Like literally first thing I wake up, they're on my desk, they're on my bedside table because I you know, for me I want to know why I'm waking up. What is the purpose of that day? Yeah, I might feel like [ __ ] but if I can get 10% if I can get 20% if I can get 50% out of that day, then isn't that better than getting zero? Yeah. You know? Like as long as you're not taking a step backwards. Cuz if you are, try to flip that car around and go a different direction, right? Try something different. Um because taking steps back just it it it crushes you. Absolutely crushes you. So what does a goal sheet of an of a world champion looks like? I mean, for me it was they were bro- all of my times were broken down into 50s, right? So like if I'm swimming a 100, it's broken down the first 50 and the second 50, and then it has my total time. They're they're down to the hundredth of a second. Every day you would have this? Well, I just see like I see So I would have short-term goals and long-term goals. Long-term goals are what times do I want to swim at the Olympic Games or World Championships? And then the short-term goals are what times do I need to hit this season in order to give me a chance at the end of the season to rip 154 in the 200 IM or 155 in the 200 IM back there. Um And then yeah, it's just I mean and then I basically I I I I wrote I I would write down basically 100, 200 free. He would always make me do the mile at least once a year. I [ __ ] hated the mile. Uh 100, 200 back, 100, 200 fly, 200, 400 IM cuz I'd swim all of those races throughout the year. And I'd sometimes swim a breaststroke race, too. Um But yeah, I mean like I think for me, you know, for the 400 IM I knew that I had to I knew that they like my strokes had to be at a certain level in order to do the times that I needed to do in the 400 IM, right? To be able to add those times together to make the right splits. And it all came what I was doing it it it all came from what I was doing every single day, right? Like if I'm going in like if I'm going in for a practice, my coach like Bob would show me the practice. He'd be like, "These are This is what we're doing today. We're doing 10 400 back or 10 200 back short course, and then the last one I want you to try to go 140." I'm like, "All right, cool. Let's go 140." Um and I would start and just descend my way down to that time, and he would give me goals every single day of what to hit in practice because those goals then were hand in hand with what I was trying to do long-term, right? And if I did that every single day and I did, whether it was freestyle, backstroke, breaststroke, butterfly, IM, it didn't matter. I was doing those times back to back to back to back to back to back to back every single week. Why? Because nobody else was. Mhm. What's the definite What's What's the definition of insanity? Doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results. I was doing different things over and over again expecting different results. I knew I was going to get them because again, there wasn't another person on the planet that was more prepared for me in those last in those two decades of my of my career on this planet. There just wasn't. That's why I was able to have the success that I did. Was it all about competing yourself, the old version of you, or was it about competing with other people who would come as your competition in the Olympics game? I was competing >> were you competing about against yourself or others? No, I was competing against the clock. That's it. Against the clock. That's how my That's how my time or that's how my sport was defined. By a time. How fast can you go? And again, like I was saying, if the times that I dreamt of and I believed that I could go were faster than the world record or faster than what other people believed, if I did those times, guess what would happen? I'm going to win. Yeah. Right? So for me it it it became a numbers game. But it's said that you knew your competition better than you they knew themselves. >> sure. Why would you say that? You would study on them? I mean, I knew how they would swim their races. It's easy, right? Like I I feel like Like would you study your competitors, the way they would do style? What would you study about them? >> Well, I mean like I I always I learned things from them, right? Like I would go back and you know, if you talk about Ian Thorpe, like I would learn from his freestyle and how he swam and his kick and his underwaters and you know, just how his body moved in the water. Um you know, I took a lot of core exercises from different countries that I would see on the pool deck. Um just because like if they're doing it, then I can do it and I can beef it up. Like I can alter the exercise and change it and make a hybrid. Um but like Lochte, like I mean, I swam against Lochte for 15 years, 10 or 15 years, right? So um you know, I felt like I knew him almost better than he knew himself just because of the history that we had. And of course, yeah, like I watch a lot of tapes. I I I mean, I I I don't you know, I'm I I don't have any connection to the sport anymore now. Um you know, there are a couple international people that I talk to, couple international athletes that I talk to, but I have zero connection with anything to do with the sport of swimming anymore. Um But yeah, it was it was just I don't know. Studying them? Yeah. You just I mean, cuz it's like you could you yourself can only do so much, right? So it's like if if you can't learn from others or others that have come before you, then you're just never going to grow. And again, like it was always back to that goal of wanting to change the sport and take the sport to a different level and You're talking about Ian Thorpe. He also said it very highly unlikely that you will win eight golds. Yeah, win eight golds. >> you you taped that quote on your locker room. Why would you do that? It was in the back of my locker in in Michigan in 2008. Um because it it it's kind of like the same story back to my teacher, right? Like my teacher telling me I'd never amount to anything and proving her wrong. And if a fellow competitor and a friend of mine is telling um Excuse me, if a friend of mine and a competitor of mine is telling reporters that it's not possible to win eight gold medals, guess what? I'll have the last laugh. Um and I it's you know, like Thorpe is a great friend of mine, always has been. Um but even like after after that and then after 2016 in Rio cuz he said no one over the age of 30 will win an Olympic gold medal. Um he he sent me a text uh right after and I was giving him [ __ ] for it, and he was like, "Dude, he's like, I know how your mind works. I was just giving you a little extra motivation." Um but no, I I I you know, I I always like proving people wrong especially Especially if they doubt something that I think is possible. Um You know, I think one thing my coach took out of my vocabulary was the word can't. Cuz if you say you can't do something, you can't. Your mind has already made it up for you. Like you made that choice, right? Don't do it. Don't think about it anymore. Don't think about whatever that was. Move on from it. Because it's going to be exponentially harder since you told yourself you can't. Right? So, it's such a negative word. So, we removed it from my my vocabulary and and you know, for me I I I just believe that whatever I did, whatever I dreamt of, excuse me, let me take a step back. Whatever I dreamt of was possible based off of the actions that I did, right? It's back to that quote. Actions speak louder than words. Right? What you do every single day, how you show up, when you show up, it matters. And it's going to matter at the most important time, right? So, um yeah, that's it. Would you ever imagine yourself losing a race? Uh sure. Yeah, why not? What if I lost? Yeah, because I never want it to happen. So, of course. Yeah. Do you do that? >> Yeah. And >> What if I get second by a hundredth of a second instead of winning by a hundredth of a second? Yeah, I'd be [ __ ] pissed. But, the only way I can change that is controlling what I do every day. So, maybe I have to prepare better, right? And was there any Well, I think I think to I think to better answer that, like I remember my losses more than I remember my victories. Because the feeling of defeat I never wanted to have again. Right? Cuz it feels like [ __ ] when you lose. It feels like [ __ ] when you fail. It's not It doesn't feel fun, right? So, for me, I looked at it as if I failed, it was my fault. Because I didn't prepare. I didn't take the time to focus on the small details that are going to help me down the road. So, those defeats motivate me even more to never have that happen again. What's about losing that you hate so much? I just don't like the feeling of somebody being better than me. >> [laughter] >> Um no, honestly, I I think that's what it is. Like I just I like you I think it's it's like you ask the greats or the goats of all sports or probably all walks of life. And and I think they'll say they hate losing more than they enjoy winning. It's just that just the feeling of defeat. Like I just I don't like it. It's just something I I don't enjoy. And if there's something in my control, in my power to make sure that I have a chance at least to succeed, then that's what I'm going to do. And if I fail and I fail because that person is more prepared than me, then so be it. But, I'm not going to show up unprepared, right? Like it's just it's not who I am. Did you use any psychological warfare sort of tactic against your competitors which you secretly would use >> No. >> and not share it with anyone? >> No. I mean, I would say some people probably think me doing my back slap and clearing my throat on the block was a form of trying to get in their head, intimidation. It wasn't. Um you know, the clearing of the throat, I don't know when that came in. I feel like it was maybe post 2008. Um but my arm slaps, I I've been doing [clears throat] those since I was 8 years old, 7 years old. I've done that my whole life. You know, so it's just a part of what I needed to do in order to get as prepared as I can be. And if what I'm doing is messing up them, it's not my problem. It's not my fault. Right? Like I'm taking care of me. I'm taking care of me and I'm focusing on what I need in that moment. I don't give a [ __ ] about my competitors in that moment. I could care Why? Why would I care about them? Right? Like I'm trying to beat them. I don't care what they're doing. I don't care anything about them. When I'm on the pool deck, it is a full-blown war. I want to absolutely destroy somebody. Was there anyone you secretly feared as a competitor? Feared? Feared? No. I beat everybody. Even in your head, you would not be like, "Maybe this new guy or somebody's better than me or someone's going to beat me." If I was prepared, why would it matter? You didn't care. I didn't care. I don't care who you were. If I smelled blood in the water, I'm going to destroy you. I was like a shark. Yeah. Tell me the first time you won the gold medal at the Olympics. How did you feel? >> Oh, four? First time ever in 2004. Because that's what you have a That's what you wanted, right? >> Yeah. Uh Yeah, I mean, I mean, going back to 2004, 400 I am. I was in the center of the pool. Went 4082. 408.26, maybe. Somewhere in there. Um and I remember turning back around and seeing that I'd broken the world record, won the gold medal, first gold medal. Um we were in outdoor pool uh in Athens, Greece. The Olympics had started. Um I remember looking up and just looking for my mom, my mom and my sisters. I caught them and then I was on the award stadium or the award podium hearing the national anthem play. Where actually the US went one, two in that race. Uh Eric Vent got second from Lane Warner eight. I forget which one it was. Uh and he came jumping across the lane line and we hugged and celebrated. It was [ __ ] awesome. Like that kid is one of my favorite humans on the planet. I love training with him. Um And then once we got our medals, uh that was day one of the meet. Um I had the 200 free, I think, the next day or a relay the next day or something. And I remember sharing it with my mom through a chain-linked fence. I passed it through her um through the fence. And and we just talked about it and we shared the moment for I think it was a total of like 30 seconds. Um and I was like, "Mom, I did it." Um and that was it. And we from that point, I heard my coach whistle. Bob whistled. He had a couple different whistles that meant a couple different things. Uh and he whistled like the one trying to get my attention. And I turned around. And he just pointed at the warm-down pool. And he's like, "Let's go. You got to warm down." Cuz I hadn't warmed down from the race yet. So, I needed to clear my lactic acid to get ready for the next day and my next race. Um so, I think that was the first time for me where I learned that um I couldn't get caught up in that one moment even though it was special. Right? Like yeah, I just won my first gold medal. But, I had five or six other races that I had to get ready for. So, that gold medal is like, "All right, finished. What's next?" On to the next race. Um you know, like it's crazy. Like I Throughout my career, I I I don't know like in the actual moment with a gold medal around my neck, like I you know, I don't think I really enjoyed it or like lived it as much as I did in 2016. Um because I knew it was my last one, period. Like I knew I wasn't coming back. And you know, that's why I kind of let the tears started coming out during the national anthem when I was in the podium just because of you know, going back and thinking through every little moment throughout my career. But, you know, in 2004 and 2008 and 2012, I couldn't use those emotions up in that way because I had so much other stuff going on that week. So, it really was trying to manage those physical and emotional or that physical and emotional energy throughout, you know, an 8 to 10-day program. Um so, yeah, you you really couldn't I couldn't, excuse me, um enjoy those moments as probably as much as probably people would have thought. Um but I think for me uh after retiring, I've been able to kind of go back and um put myself back in those spots. And um it's been really cool. Uh just being able to look at each medal and you know, tell you exactly what was going on in my head or you know, who I was swimming against, who I touched out, this, that, or the other. Um just trying to break it all down, right? Because I think that at times there's there's still that like that thought you're like, "Is that a dream? Or did that really happen?" Right? So, you still got to pinch yourself every now and then. But, winning the gold medal, getting it >> But, winning the gold medal, getting it in your hand, you're standing at the in your hand, you're standing at the podium, podium, >> and you're not thinking about that >> and you're not thinking about that feeling of winning. You're just thinking feeling of winning. You're just thinking about, "Okay, tomorrow, next race." about, "Okay, tomorrow, next race." Yep. >> Yep. >> I can't. >> I can't. >> I could not do it. >> I could not do it. >> I couldn't. >> I couldn't. >> Because I couldn't I I I had to >> Because I couldn't I I I had to >> I had to make sure that like in that >> I had to make sure that like in that moment, I had to make sure that I was moment, I had to make sure that I was >> getting the right recovery, >> getting the right recovery, >> right? Like if I was finished for the >> right? Like if I was finished for the night and I had warmed down already, night and I had warmed down already, then I'm like, then I'm like, >> "All right, >> "All right, >> am I getting back on the massage table >> am I getting back on the massage table >> and then right into the cold tub to then >> and then right into the cold tub to then go back and eat? Am I eating first? What go back and eat? Am I eating first? What am I doing? am I doing? >> Is there food here? Do I have to eat a >> Is there food here? Do I have to eat a power bar or something like that now or power bar or something like that now or Carnation Instant Breakfast just to give Carnation Instant Breakfast just to give me some energy before I get back to the me some energy before I get back to the village?" village?" >> Um >> Um yeah, >> yeah, it it was >> it it was >> it was one thing in front of another. >> it was one thing in front of another. >> I mean, like >> I mean, like you >> even in 2012, right? Like >> even in 2012, right? Like >> 2012, I swam the 400 >> 2012 I swam the 400 IM, which [ __ ] I still probably shouldn't have swam it. Um but whatever, it was a learning experience and I did it. Uh where I got fourth. I got fourth and missed the podium. Um and that was the very very first day of the Olympics, right? So at that point it's like, "All right, well that didn't go as planned. So now how do you redirect yourself and your energy to make sure that doesn't affect the rest of the meet." So I was like I had literally I just threw it out. Just forgot about it. Next day I came back and had an unbelievable split on the relay. Um and then kind of built to momentum back from there, but yeah, it's it's it's you know, really living in the moment and I think it's you know, I still haven't mastered it, but you know, I think throughout my career it was something that I was really good at. Um I think there's a book that I have probably read a dozen times, The Power of Now, Eckhart Tolle. Like it's just it's incredible. Like there's something really to living in the moment um and I think it's something we can all learn from. Like I mean, you guys have heard me talk about having four kids and those four kids do it perfectly. They live in the moment every single waking moment of their life right now. Um and I you know, I think it's there's just a lot of power to that. It's something that I try to do at every moment of my life. It is hard um this complicated world that we live in, but um I think there's if that's one thing that that you can try to do, it's living in the now. I think it truly allows you to be the best version of you. What about the time when you won all eight gold medals? After that, there was nothing to look forward to at least during that time. Did you not enjoy that as well? There wasn't. There was nothing to look forward to because at that point I had just done something that no one else had ever done that I had literally set my life to do, to try to do. So did you enjoy that feeling a lot? Yeah, it was awesome, but I was just like, "All right, cool. Like I just need space from the sport." And that's when I kind of like stiff-armed the sport a little bit and just wanted to be me. I wanted to be a kid. Um and I learned a lot about myself that way, too. >> [laughter and gasps] >> Put myself in a couple different situations throughout my life, but um yeah, it was I mean, but but I think like I if I can understand a little bit of what you're asking. Like for me like the sacrifices that I gave up throughout my career allowed me to have the opportunity that I had in the swimming pool. Mhm. And I don't regret giving those things up. You know, like for me throughout my career it it yeah, would it have been cool to go and like party with your friends or go on a road trip for the weekend? Yeah, sure, but isn't it really cool winning 23 Olympic gold medals, too? You know, so like for me like it was almost like I have this opportunity to do something really special and uh I'm going to have that same opportunity to do whatever they're doing right now in 15 years, right? So it's just like kind of lock in and just go. >> [snorts] >> You know what's funny because you just said 23 gold medals. I was listening to one of the uh somebody was explaining an interview which you gave and the interviewer asked you that you've won 28 28 Olympic medals in your life. >> No, yeah, 23 Olympic >> And you said, "No, just 23 that counts." Yeah. I don't even know how many how many silver and and bronze I have. It's it's >> anything which is not gold doesn't count two and three and >> four. in your life? >> I mean, it's it's like I said, it's like yeah, I don't I don't like to lose. So Uh silver is losing? You're second. Right? You got second place. >> [snorts] >> You lost. Third place? You lost. Yeah, it's losing. I don't talk about the other five. I went 28 for 30. Here's a better way of saying it. I medaled in 28 out of 30 of my races at the Olympic Games. 23 are only the ones that we need to talk about. Because again, like I I was unprepared in the other ones. Somebody else was more prepared than me. So in 2012 when the bad phase started and you won four gold medals in the Olympics and you were sad about it. Yeah, it sucked. I just want But at the But like that point like I think I was sad because I just wanted to be done with the sport. You know, like I I think at that point I was just over it. I wanted I wanted space. I wanted to be a kid. I wanted to just grow up a little bit and not just literally all be about swimming and like I think for me I think that's what that's when I really kind of stiff-armed the sport, so you will. Um because all I had done was swim swim swim swim swim. And I think at that point I was like, "What else do I need to do? There's nothing else that I need to accomplish." And I just kind of rebelled a little bit and did my own thing and then um you know, realized that I still wanted it and came back in '16. You know, but like yeah, in 2012, you know, the 200 fly if I if I don't [clears throat] have a shitty first, second, third turn or hit the finish with any amount of momentum, I won't win the race. If I win that race, I probably don't come back in '16. Mhm. Right? So it's like for me like 2012 was I I think that that Olympics was worse than the 2000 Olympics and I came back with six medals. I hated swimming then. I hated it. I didn't want to do it. I did it because I had to. I was contractually obligated. I had to. If I didn't compete, I lost all my sponsors. So I had to swim. I did the best I could with not doing much work. I mean, I literally trained I trained less than 2 years of that 4 years from 2008 to 2012. And you still ended up with four golds. I don't think I was 100% in Beijing. Yeah, but we we >> [laughter] >> I want to talk about that. I want to talk about that, right? It's I broke my wrist 6 months before the Olympic Games. In '08. Before the Beijing? Mhm. I spent 3 days out of the water and had surgery 24 to 36 hours afterwards. Mhm. Right there. There's a scar still. And there's still a pin in there. I have a titanium pin in there. Slipped on a piece of >> you you gave what you had. I slipped on a piece of ice. My wrist snapped back and there was a I basically looked like a golf ball coming out of my wrist. And I just popped it I popped it back in, held it had surgery the next day. Yeah. But no, I like I I truly don't think I was >> months before the Olympics >> 6 months before trials. 6 months before Olympic trials. And you still ended up winning eight gold medals. >> Eight. All eight. Mhm. But I was probably only at But here's what I don't understand. >> 85%? 90%? >> [clears throat] >> But okay explain me this, right? 2004, six medals. 2008, eight medals. >> Yeah. Gold. 2012, four gold medals. And 2016, again. But you say that only 2016 where you've given 100%. Yeah. >> Before that, London was not 100%. >> London definitely wasn't. >> Beijing wasn't 100%. Athens wasn't 100%. >> '04 was. Um but like '08 like yeah, I don't think I was I was fully at 100%. No. I could That's what I'm saying. Like you asked earlier like the 200 butterfly. Yeah, I was pissed even though I broke the world record and won the gold medal because I knew I could have gone faster. Like that's what I'm saying. Like I I truly coming off of 2007, that was like arguably probably better than 2008 even though I only won seven. Um because we we I could have I should have won Um so disqualified. Uh yeah, 2007 was unbelievable. Like that best year of my career um and then break my broke my wrist 6 months before trials. Uh yeah. That that recovery was was brutal um but we did whatever we could and and yeah, it ended up working out, but yeah, it could have it could have been better. And I think being better I say from a times spirit like a times perspective, a times standard. I think the times that I did there would have been faster had I not broken my wrist, but that was my fault, so whatever. What was going on in your head in 2016 because I heard there was a competitor who said "Michael Phelps should shut up." And then he you were sitting in the in the ready room. >> don't think he said shut up. I don't remember hearing that, but >> Like somewhere there was like he said he there was a news about it, right? And then he was shadow boxing shadow boxing
