he way you play that song is irrelevant because the lyrics of it speak to your heart. Yes. It's so strong that it doesn't matter how you play, it hits you. And that's where you can lean into the content. There is some content that is just so powerful that regardless of delivery it hits because of the profound nature that exists within the lyrics. And then I've seen pianists play Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star and I was flabbergasted. One of the most basic songs you've ever heard. And the way they added chords to it and the rhythm and the way they re un I've never heard Twinkle style like that. So you can take something basic and use delivery to make it amazing or you could take something truly profound and have no delivery and is just as amazing. And that's the beauty of music. That's the beauty of poetry and art. And it's the beauty of that, right? And and you just have to determine for you with what you're currently doing. Does it have that level of profoundness? And can you keep that level of profoundness that consistently throughout this life where you can just forget about delivery? And if you can, damn, good for you. That's amazing. Steve Jobs. Yeah, Steve Jobs. That's incredible. When everything you say is that potent, then you don't have to worry about your communication skills because one of one of the I'm sure you get this. You get trolls, but I always have trolls on my content where they're like, "Oh, yeah, but then what about Elon Musk? He doesn't have to work. What about his communication skills?" And I always say, and I shouldn't ever respond to this, but sometimes I get a bit cheeky and I do. And I go, "Listen, mate, if you're as smart and intelligent as Elon Musk, forget about communication skills. Just get us to Musk. Make us a multilanetary species, right? like forget about it. Please please save the human race. But if you're a mere mortal like me, then you probably should work on this skill. But do you know what I mean? Yeah. So again, and and sometimes and sometimes you're right. Sometimes when you have something that profound, you also want to let go of some of the bells and whistles. I agree. Yeah. You want to let go of some of that. Yes. It's a delivery choice and a delivery style. Yeah. A good balance one that I've seen is Matthew McConnA's Oscar speech when he accepted for Dallas Buyers Club. Yeah, it's like that perfect balance between I mean he's got an amazing voice, phenomenal and communicator and at the same time the content so profound and so you see a great marriage of the two in that one where there's showmanship, there's performance and there's potency. Yeah. And and you're right. I I agree with you. I I only brought up the Steve Jobs one because and I and I love the way you explained it. I'm so glad I asked it because that idea of the lyrics just being so profound. and just read it. Realize he literally read it off a piece of paper and you're listening to every single word. I mean, you know, it's it's so powerful. I was going to ask you, people can sense when something feels inauthentic. What are we sensing? Misalignment. However, when it comes to communication alone, it's usually people trying something out that they haven't really ironed out yet. And I I hope this is not nauseating and people are starting to vomit in the back of their throats at this point, but when somebody first plays the saxophone, how does it sound? J. Yeah. No. Great. Yeah. I have one of those neighbors. Yeah. It's fine. It's fine. I find it very sweet as a young kid learning how to play. Right. And do you ever sit for a moment and going that is the most inauthentic saxophone player I've ever heard in my life? No. What a fake saxophone player. No. You go that person's learning and I'm just making it communication related. Yeah. I love it. So when I have my students try out things for the first time and they're doing things like this, right? So they first learn volume. They go, "Ah, I've been speaking with a low volume my whole life." So then they go, "Okay, I'm going to try to talk like this." Okay. And I've just learned hand gestures, so I'm gonna I'm gonna try to People immediately look at that and go, "Inauthentic." Yes, you're doing something that's not authentic to you. No, no, no, no. I'm like, "Stop. That is someone just starting to learn how to play the saxophone." And the moment you call them inauthentic and fake, do you know what happens to them? They now revert to the same behaviors they've been repeating for the last 30 years of their life. M it's such an intricate moment for someone when they're choosing to play their instrument in a different way that you've got to help them move towards the future version of them. Jay, right? And that's where we sense that in that that inauthentic part where we go, "Ah, this person I feel like they're being inauthentic. You don't know the backstory. Maybe this person is trying to be heard because their entire life they've been invisible and the way that they're trying on this new way of speaking is because they're just testing out the instrument in a different way and you just caught them on a bad day. You just caught them when they were playing poorly. And I think we need a little more of that compassion. Yeah. We need a little more of that empathy because I've I've approached that and I've made those judgments before myself too. Yeah. But I've also been through that messy middle where when I spoke again I was like a robot. I I I and and again, I knew that people were judging me, but if I didn't have the courage in that moment to push through, then I'd still be the same version of me from 15 years ago. So, I feel that from a communication context when you're trying to improve, when people sense that in you, it's just you learning how to play this saxophone. Yeah, it's okay. So, all you got to do is this. All you got to do is this. Before you start to play with your voice and your body differently and and you start to improve the way you communicate, prime your conversations. Say say to your partner, say to your neighbor before you learn the saxophone, say, "Hey, listen. I've been inspired by listening to Vin and Jay on the podcast and I want to I want to change the way I use my voice." Okay? I've been quiet my entire life. I want to give you and the kids more energy. If you see me speaking with more volume, can you encourage me because I want to be more. I want to give more. Yeah. All of a sudden, if you give that context now, the next time you're like, "Hey honey, I'm home." And she was like, "Oh, hey, it's so good to see you trying." Now, with that context, they support you. Without the context, if you just immediately come home, they go, I know what they'll say. They go, "Why are you doing that with your voice? Why are you doing that with Why are you doing that?" Yeah. And it's because something my my vocal coach used to say, too. She used to say this. She goes, "Your voice is your personality." And I used to I'm like, "What?" And she goes, "No, no, no. Your voice is your personality, Vinn. When people compliment you on your personality, the literal thing they're complimenting is how you're playing your instrument." Interesting. Because that's how we perceive personality. We perceive personality through the use of the instrument. Yeah. Personality comes through music. That's why you can listen to a soundtrack. I do this experiment with my kids uh not only my kids, but my students too. I love doing this experiment where I just play a piano track and I get them to listen to it and I go, "What words come to mind?" And it's crazy. They'll say things like, my students will say things like, "Oh, I I hear complexity. I hear drama. I hear Oh, I hear pain. I hear misery. I hear nostalgia and and and I always wake them up to it and I go, "Do you know there were no words in that?" None. None whatsoever. Yet, you got a world of meaning from that. People get a world of meaning just from the sound of your voice and how you use your voice. So, if you pay no attention to that, that means you're putting no intention into how you're coming across. Yeah. And I love that point, man. I love your heart for saying that, too. that so much of the time when we think someone's inauthentic, it's really just inexperience. They're trying something new. Yeah. They're trying something new. They're exploring. And we always look at it and we judge them and we think, "Oh, they're fake." That, you know, and half the time it's just someone trying to figure something out. And then what we don't realize we're doing is then we give them negative feedback that immediately puts them into the same patterns of behavior that has been causing them pain because we're not as compassionate. We see what they do. We don't see why they do what they do. Mhm. Right. Right? Whereas I think if we took a moment to go, why would that person do that? Oh, maybe they're exploring their instrument. Right. And I think I think it was Kyung that said that again. We we see what people do. We don't see why they do what they do. Vin, it's been uh such a joy talking to you, man. You are you're brilliant. You're you're not just a brilliant communicator. You've got a great heart, too. And it comes across in the way you want to help people and see them grow. and and the amount that you've thought through the challenges, the trip ups, the all the blocks that we run into, man. It's it's really beautiful and I really thank you and commend you for your amazing work and it's uh it's very special. So, thank you, man. Jay, thank you for giving me the opportunity. I I'm from Adelaide, South Australia. I I never thought that I'd ever be able to connect with you in person and hang out with you, Jay. This is this is unreal. Thank you for the opportunity. No, I'm a fan, so it's easy. Uh, we end every episode of On Purpose with a final five. These have to be answered in one word to one sentence maximum. Are you serious? Yeah. So, you can't This is my kryptonite. So, you can't You can't You can't Yeah. I'll probably break it for you because you're such a good explainer. Sure. Sure. I'll let you do it. No, no, no, no. I won't. I'm going to try to stick to Hey, rules are rules. Rules are rules. The first question, what's the best piece of communication advice you've ever heard or received? Your voice is an instrument. Play all of the songs that are trapped within you. Don't die with all your music trapped inside. That was a great sentence. It's a long sentence. It's a great sentence. Long sentences are fine. Uh, second question. What's the worst communication advice you've ever heard, received, or given? If you're nervous, just look over their heads. I was literally given that advice. What What are you meant You can expand. What are you meant to do? Well, well, again, you want to look at people. Look at them in the eyes because the advice was look over their heads. they won't be able to tell. And this was my first piece of advice I was given when I was going on stage. And I started looking over people's heads and it just looked like I was arrogant, right? Cuz I was like, "Oh, hey everyone. Good to see you." And I wasn't looking them in the eyes. Terrible. And also, you get no feedback. You have no energetic exchange. You don't have a clue. Yeah. Well, the worst thing is it's that and then you look like an arrogant person. Arrogant. Yeah, that's interesting. I never thought about that. All right. Uh, question number three on that point. Why does our body and our hands shake when we're nervous? is the excess adrenaline and you have the remedy to that in this episode already. Star jumps. I love it. Uh, question number four. What's something that you used to believe was true about communication but not anymore? That I was stuck with the sound of my voice. It's just a series of behaviors. If you change the behaviors, you change the sound. Example, when I told my dad I wanted to leave accounting to become a magician, I remember what he said. He said, "What in the hell you want to be to Harry Potter?" Literally, what he said to me, "I just changed the way I moved my mouth. I just changed a series of behaviors. I changed the sound I was able to create. It's just behaviors." Walk me through that conversation. Yeah. So my my mom and dad are refugees from Vietnam and they're they cling to safety and security because of fear and they've known fear all of their lives. So I remember coming home saying to mom and dad, I said, "Mom, dad, I I really want to quit university." And obviously they wanted me to fulfill the Asian prophecy, obviously. Same with your parents, I'm sure. I had this really heart-to-he heart conversation with them where I said, "Mom, dad, you why did you escape the war? Why?" And they said, "We escaped because we want to find a better home for you." I'm like, "Yeah, yeah, but why why was Vietnam at the time not a good home? Why is Australia a better home?" And they said, "Freedom." And I said, "Oh, great. So, so you you made the made the decision to to flee to Australia for freedom. Then do you want to force me into a career that's going to create misery for me? Is Is that what you want?" And I know why you're doing this. Because of love, Mom and and Dad, because you're you're you're so afraid. But we're not in Vietnam anymore. We're in Australia and we're free. And I know that the reason you came here is to give me the freedom to do what I love. And I was able to wake them up from fear and remember the main reason why they came here in the first place because their lives were driven by fear of not enough of we're in danger. And they they still carried all of that fear. They didn't realize it. And when I woke them up to that, it was such a beautiful conversation because it was almost like my parents were reminded. They're like, "No, no, thank you for reminding us. We've been so driven by fear our entire lives." Cuz I said to them, I did work experience at an accounting firm and dad, do you know what they all do on a Friday night? They go drinking because they're drowning their sorrows in something they don't like. And I'm sure people love accounting. It's just where I do work experience. They didn't love it. They dread it every day, right? And I said, "That's me. That's going to be me. That that's the path I'm walking. So I already know that's not the path, you And then the most beautiful thing my dad said to me after realizing all of this is he goes, "You still owe me one thing though, boy. In this life, you have to jump as high as you can. And as long as I'm alive, I'll forever be your net." Wow. And I needed that net a lot of times. Oh yeah. I tested that net many times. And and I I I share this now in a long answer because Jay, I'm sitting here having achieved the things I've achieved because of my mom and my dad. without that net, without their support, without their love, without their guidance, I wouldn't be here. I wouldn't have been able to do this. And I think this is true for those listening too. You would not be where you are if it wasn't for whether it's the families we choose or the families were born into. Mhm. If it wasn't for them, we we would not be who we are. We would not be where we are. They must be really proud now. Yeah. They they they still And then you quit magic. The first time my dad came and saw me speak, at the end of it, the funniest thing he comes up to me, he goes, "They they they pay you for this?" And he was so mindblown because he goes cuz I wouldn't. He just he was so shocked. He couldn't believe that they he couldn't believe it was a thing. He couldn't believe that professional speaking was a career path. So, but it's so beautiful to see their mind open up. And and then the most beautiful thing my dad said to me recently, this was maybe in the last 5 years where he he came up to me and he said, "Thanks for not giving up on me." Because because there was a lot of conversations at the time in many different Vietnamese families where the kids would give up on their parents where it would be like, "You know what? If you're not supporting me, stuff you. I'm out." Whereas I I I I really didn't give up on my parents. I I remember my first magic gig I did and I made like 1,500 bucks for performing for an hour. This was like outrageous. This is a week's worth of work, right? And I bought home the cash and I was like, "Dad, look, I I got this in an hour." And I celebrated that moment with him. I made him a part of that because I knew that I had to slowly show him what's possible. I couldn't all of a sudden go, "Dad, refugee been through the war." And immediately say, "Magician." To him, it's like, "What the freak is that? That doesn't make sense." But as I slowly shared my wins with him on my journey, I was able to open my dad's mind. So my dad got to be a part of the journey with me and my mom. And when he thanked me for that, it was one of the sweetest moments because you could have very easily gave up on me. And now we have this beautiful relationship and it's one of my most important relationships. Yeah, that's beautiful, man. Thank you for sharing that. That counts as one word. No, no, no. I wanted I wanted to hear it. I wanted to uh fifth and final question. We ask this to every guest who's ever been on the show. If you could create one law that everyone in the world had to follow, what would it be? Use your instrument to spread more love, kindness, and compassion. Vin Jiang, thank you so much. Uh, such an honor having you here. I hope we get to do this many, many more times together. Thank you, Jay. Uh, if all of you are listening and watching, if you don't already, follow Vin on social media. We will put all the links in the comments. Go and follow him across Tik Tok, Instagram, all platforms. Uh, I really hope that this episode makes you a better communicator to your partner, your parents, in your profession, in all areas of your life. It's such a key skill that's needed. And I would love to see on Instagram and Tik Tok the clips, the moments, the parts that really stood out to you, tag us both so we can see what you're practicing. If you do a video of yourself every day and start posting or practicing, tag us in it. I want to see it. I really, really want to see it. I really, really want to see it. It would be so awesome. I'd love to be able to interact with you all and see how much you've grown from it. And again, Vin, I you are welcome back to OnPurpose anytime you want. So, I hope you'll come back and uh we'll see you again. 100%. Thank you, man. Cheers, brother. Thank you. If you love this episode, you'll love my interview with Dr. Gab Mate on understanding your trauma and how to heal emotional wounds to start moving on from the past. Everything in nature grows only where it's vulnerable. So, a tree doesn't grow where it's hard and thick, does it? It goes where it's soft and green and vulnerable.

