You take a deep breath and then continue speaking. The reason people aren't comfortable with the pause is because they don't know what the pause is for. Right? The pause allows people to process what you're saying. Think about it now. Listeners, as you're listening to that, the moment I paused, you had a moment to process the things that I was saying. Do you want to be more charismatic? You see, in the world of communication, there are two fundamental areas. Didn't that just seem really important? I was so bad at interactions with human beings. There was just a period of my life where I I didn't understand what anybody was saying to me. You're saying that everyone can go from being a shy, unconfident speaker to being a prolific speaker like yourself. Being a confident communicator, that's just another series of behaviors that you can practice. So when people say, "Oh, I'm shy." I always say to them, "Oh, that's because you've been practicing the shy behaviors for the last 15, 20, 30, 40 years. What are the top three things, the practical problems that people are coming to solve when they come to the number one health and wellness podcast? J Shetty. J Shetty, the one, the only J Shetty. What made you commit your life to helping people find their voice and find their confidence? I always feel like the thing we end up doing in life tends to be something that had a massive impact on us when we were younger. I don't know if you find the same to be true, but for me, man, Jay, when I was young, I I was such a bad communicator. I was so bad at interactions with human beings. And the reason for that is because English is my third language. So, I grew up first learning a Chinese dialect called Dio. And then I learned Vietnamese and then I learned English. So there was just a period of my life where I I didn't understand what anybody was saying to me and I couldn't communicate with other people. So I just went through a period of life where I felt really isolated. I didn't realize that I was doing it in my career. But as I learned how to communicate more effectively, became a professional speaker, all of this, I went, "Oh, wow. Now I have this skill that I can teach other people." So the moment I just tried teaching it, I felt fulfillment. And I never really felt that level of fulfillment before. That's when I decided, "Oh, wow. It's cool to do it yourself. It's even cooler to help other people do it." And then that's kind of when I went allin with it and found so much fulfillment. And again, I'm sure you get this all the time, but it's the comments, the emails you get and you're like, "Oh, wow. I I'm doing something that matters." Yeah. Whereas before I was a magician, so I did that for years. And it feels weird to say it because I don't want to talk down on what magicians do. Not at all. which is for me the applause at times when I was doing magic it felt really empty to me because I did it for so long and it started to feel a little bit empty and then when I started teaching public speaking and communication skills it felt full it felt better it felt more fulfilling from the way you're talking about it you're saying that everyone can go from being a shy insecure unconfident speaker to being a prolific speaker like yourself yes because it's all just a series of behaviors Everything you and I are doing right now, everything you see a great communicator do on stage, everything you see a great creator do on video, it's just a series of behaviors. The way you're moving your mouth, the way you're manipulating airflow, the way you're moving your hands, it's all just behaviors. So when people say, "Oh, I'm shy." I always say to them, "Oh, that's because you've been practicing the shy behaviors for the last 15, 20, 30, 40 years, being a confident communicator." That's just another series of behaviors that you can practice. And if you practice that for 10, 20, 30, you'd be a confident communicator, right? So it's just behaviors that we get attached to because it becomes a part of our identity. And then I think when it becomes a part of our identity, all of a sudden now we feel like we're stuck, but you're not. And then there's this really interesting concept, I don't know if you've come across it before, where it's where does your voice come from? Where do you get your voice from? You you learn how to communicate based on the people you were inspired by when you were young and you just learn behaviors from them. Like I'm watching my daughter now, my daughter Melody, she's one and I can see her watch us and then start to mimic the things we do. Right. Right. My my wife the other day met her spaghetti. She wouldn't eat it. So my wife was furious. She was so upset. She was like, "Ah, you're not eating it." And then she goes, "Ah." She does the exact same thing. Right. And then my son, he picks up the way I speak cuz he's seven now. I notice he has certain nuances that I have. So again, the voice you currently have, people think, "Oh, that's my natural voice." It's like, "No, no, it's not your natural voice." Yeah. You lost your natural voice when you were two or three years old, right? Whereas the voice you have now, that's your habitual voice. It's just a series of habits. And the thing that I find the first most fascinating is that when the habits move from your conscious mind and it goes into your subconscious mind, now you feel it's a part of you and now you're stuck with it. But in the beginning of your life, you have to consciously think, "Oh, oh, dad speaks really softly, so I'm going to speak really softly." But the moment you do that for 2, three years, now it moves into your subconscious mind. And then you go, "Oh, no, that's me." No, no, it's it's still just a series of behaviors, and that's all that it is. Yeah. I've always loved that model of unconscious incompetence to unconscious competence. And for anyone who doesn't know it, four stages, right? The four stages. The the bottom stage is unconscious incompetence. When you are unconscious of your incompetence, you have no idea what you're doing wrong. You probably don't know that you um are try and fill every pause, say like at the end of every sentence, whatever it may be. And we all have an unconscious incompetence, especially in the way we speak. And that's when we have this mindset that you're saying where we think it's our voice, but actually it's just practice behaviors. M and then above from that which is what I love. This is what you do so phenomenally well when you're with your audiences conscious incompetence. You're helping people become aware of how our body language, our voice, our tonality affects us. And then above that for everyone who doesn't know the model is conscious competence. Correct? where now you know why you move your hand that way and why you choose to lower your voice or lower your pitch or whatever it may be. And that's kind of a frustrating part for people to be at stage three because they go I know it but V I still have to think about it. So when they do it, it's really interesting cuz I see my students do this all the time where they go, "Hello everybody. It's great to be here." And then they go, "Vin, this feels so fake. It feels so phony." But I'm like, "You have to go through that stage to get to stage four, which is unconscious competence, which is mastery." Yes. And a lot of people aren't willing to push through that because they go, "No, it doesn't feel natural. So that means it's not right." Let's talk about that. That's a really I think that's one of the biggest challenges because I think we're both sitting here as people who've trained worked hard at our craft worked hard at our art. Yeah. And now at this point it does feel like unconscious competence. Yeah. But a lot of people say well no but if you had to learn it then it's fake. It's unnatural. It's not real. It's phony. But what's the difference between developing a skill versus faking it? Like what's the difference? I love your definition of home where you say home is the familiar right and to me the way you currently communicate you have a home and that is because those behaviors you've been repeating for the last 10 20 30 years right so that feels like home to you whereas what people don't realize is and I I don't mean to take a long explanation for I think it's important when you used to ask me what my home was when I was young I would say my suburb so I'd say Ssbury Downs then as I got older I started explor explore my city, I I'll say Adelaide is my home, South Australia, right? And then as I explored more of my state, then I would say South Australia is my home. Then I explore more of Australia, I go, Australia is my home. Now I've lived in LA and and Southern California, oh, I kind of feel like America's my home, too. And then as I travel more of the world, I go, "Oh, the world is my home." The same thing with your communication skills. You have access to this incredible instrument, but your home is such a small part of that instrument. Say a piano has 88 keys, right? Right now, home to you is five keys because you're only familiar with those five keys. But as you start to realize you have access to this incredible instrument, you start to play the other keys. Home becomes the entire piano. Whereas the struggle that people have is the moment they do something that they're unfamiliar with. Instead of labeling it as unfamiliar, they label it as fake and phony. And what happens the moment you do that? You stop exploring your instrument. And now you are limited to the five keys you've been playing with your entire life. And I think there's there's an overattachment to the familiar which keeps us the same. Because when you think about this, most people change the way they dress, they change their glasses, they change their house, they change their car, but they never change the way they talk. They never change the way they communicate because we are way too attached to the familiar. And I say to my students this all the time, don't be so attached to who you are in the present, you don't give the future version of you a chance. There's a future version of you where the world is home. There's a future version of you where you can play all 88 keys. I love that concept of we change our hair, we change our glasses, change our clothes, but we don't change the way we communicate. And I was going to ask you, when you have so many people coming to see you speak, what are the top three things, the practical problems that people are coming to solve when they come to you? So when someone comes and says, "Vin, I need your help." Yeah. What are they trying to solve in their life? the top three things that you hear. First thing would be they want to get from stage one unconscious incompetence to like you've made me aware of one thing. How can I start to become aware of more things? So again, self-awareness. So first thing they go is like how can I become more self-aware? I've now been I'm awake now to the problem of my communication. How can I begin that journey and become more aware? And when they ask me that question, then I share with them a very simple technique. And a very simple technique that I share with them is record and review. So the only way to become more aware is if you see yourself and most people hate watching themselves on video. Most people hate listening to themselves on audio. So that means they've been going through their entire life avoiding the two most critical things you need to develop self-awareness with your communication. So and they hate this process. So the process is record a video of you speaking for five minutes, right? And then when you review and reflect on that video, leave it for a day so you're less critical of yourself. And once you've left it for a day, the first time you grab your phone to review the video, put it on mute. And then just look at yourself. And then as you're looking at yourself, take notes. What am I doing with my hands? How are my facial expressions? What am I doing with my legs? How am I moving? Am I do I have any visual ticks? So you take a whole bunch of notes. That's the beginning process of self-awareness. Then after that, turn the volume up. Just listen to yourself. Now turn the phone around. play. Just listen. And as you're listening now, listen to the vocal qualities. What do you like about your voice? What don't you like? What can you hear? How's your rate of speech? How's your volume? What's your melody like? Do you hear the passion? If you're passionate about something, you'll take so many notes when you do this. What are your filler words, nonwords? Right? You get all of that down. Then the last step is get it transcribed. So once you transcribe it, now you can see the way you communicate in a completely different perspective. You might notice you speak in circles. I repeated the same thing four times. What am I doing? Right? And you'll see different things. If you just go through that process once, you'll get a list of five to 10 things. Right? That's how you begin your journey of self-awareness. Yet, people will resist that because it's too uncomfortable. They'll record it, but they won't watch it. But the ones that do, Jay, I immediately get a DM after shock. I can't believe I do X. And it's crazy cuz I I think of one of my students right now where he said, "For 6 years I've been held back in my career because my managers and my leaders say that I lack clarity. I lack authority and I lack confidence." And he goes, "And they give me this feedback yet they don't tell me what I need to improve." And do you know what I realized through doing this recording review process? the one thing that has robbed me of 6 years of progress is my ing and aaring. I can't believe ing and aaring has held me back. And he was so frustrated. And I remember I had to tell him I look look that's I I get your frustration but at least it didn't hold you back for 20 years and you realized it now. But something simple as ing and aing held him back for that long and destroyed his perception of being a great leader. It's kind of crazy. Yeah. That's what I wanted to get to is that's the problem. And I feel someone may see your work and they'll say, "Well, I don't want to be a public speaker." That's right. That's not the point. The point is there's a promotion that you're not getting because you don't have authority. Or the challenge is you're not able to ask out the person on a date that you really want to take out on a date. Like you don't feel that confidence. Or there's the challenge of you're in a team meeting and you feel like your voice is never heard. People always overlook your opinion. They don't hear you. What are some of those stories that you've heard of people that have those types of challenges that are coming to you exactly like the one you just told us? They're like, "Oh, Vin, this is actually solving a daily issue for me." The big one, people keep interrupting me. Not only do they not listen to my ideas, they interrupt me. And then my turn is gone now. And the idea that I was going to share was one that was going to be able to change the course of the meeting. But because they interrupted me, now I'm invisible. And that keeps happening to me. And then when they ask me, they go, "Why do other people interrupt me? Why does it happen?" The reason is something that I don't think you'd expect. Because it comes down to vocal presence and physical presence. And when I see them in the situations where people interrupt them, the reason is because their vocal presence is low and their physical presence is low. So for example, everyone's sitting around a meeting table and and again I go look send me an example right where you're doing a big Zoom meeting and you're allowed to send me this send it to me let me see what's happening and when you see it everyone's sitting down and then the way she would bring up the question it was a woman who asked me this and I remember the way she'd ask it is very low volume so look I've just got a quick idea I would love to share with you all very small body language and if I was talking to you like this right now it is so easy for you to interrupt this version of me so easy whereas imagine instead I take control of this. Stand. Stand. They go, "Oh, I feel a bit little bit weird." Well, just prime the reason. Just go, "Look, I've been sitting all day. Do you mind if I stand for my part of the presentation?" "Oh, great. All right, then you just stand." If you stand now, all of a sudden, you're in a position of more authority. And if you use larger body language, stronger volume, the version of me right now, this version is infinitely more difficult for you to interrupt. Absolutely. It's infinitely more difficult because you've got more authority. You've got more credibility. But again, because a lot of people in those situations fall victim to a lower default volume, a slower default rate of speech, smaller body language, and then all of a sudden people interrupt them. Absolutely. Or talk over them just completely ignored. So I say I often say to my students, the reason people interrupt you is because you're easy to interrupt. Create a bit of that friction, right? Create a little bit of that authority. And then again, they try it. It feels a little bit, again, they say fake and phony, but I'm like, reframe it, reframe it. It's just unfamiliar. And then they start to do it. They go, "Oh, it felt really unfamiliar." V, but the moment they do it, they go, "Wow." People like just from standing alone, V, I felt like I stood. I just had a bit of volume. I didn't even use my body language, but already people are not interrupting me. So again, it just goes to show that how you use your instrument and your voice lets other people know how they can treat you. Yeah, that's such a great point. It's so true. And I hope everyone who's listening and watching right now, I want you to rewind back, right? Go backwards. the last five minutes. Everything that Vin said from the point of self-awareness through to just now and practice it in your next meeting, right? Listen to yourself in a meeting. Even record yourself while you're in a meeting as you are normally, as you are right now, and then go listen back to that and then apply what Vin was saying because it's so interesting to me how daily our communication is impacting our lives. And we think we're not getting promoted because we're not networking or we're notically brilliant, technically great or whatever it may be. Or maybe you're sitting there going, J, I'm actually one of the best in the company when it comes to XYZ. But now I realize that it's my ability to coach people, guide people because I have that influence. I wanted to ask you, how does an introvert get the courage to do what you just said? Because I'm sure there's a lot of people listening right now, they're introverted naturally. I mean, do you even believe in introverts or is that also a practice behavior? Well, there definitely is a difference. Obviously, I asked my vocal teacher the the same thing. I said, "What's the difference between an introvert and extrovert?" And she goes, "The key thing is just how they get energy. Are you introverted or are you extroverted?" I mean, I I I know I'm very extroverted. I get energy from being around people, but she goes, "Introverts, they lose energy once they're around people." So, she goes, "Look, that's the key difference. Now, let me ask you a question. A pianist, if they're an extrovert, would they play differently to an introvert?" And I had to think about that for a while because I thought, "Surely this is a trick question." And I I said, "Yes." and she goes, "No, you're an idiot. There's no difference. You will not be able to tell who it is an introvert and who is an extrovert if you listen to a pianist. Great music is great music. Your voice is an instrument. Great music is great music." She goes, "The only difference is introverts have to be highly strategic with when they play their instrument. Extroverts can play their instrument all day. It's more difficult for an introvert because you have to be highly selective when you play your instrument." It's an excuse that I think some of my friends who are introverted used to give and where they say oh because I'm introvert I'm not going to play my instrument well at all. And it's like no no no you still have energy you just have to use it much more strategically and you have to be highly aware of how you can rejuvenate that energy. Yes, you have to be very conscious. It's harder for introverts. It is harder for introverts to acknowledge that. However, if you've got great ways to be able to rejuvenate your energy and you have good menu items, like good things you can go and snack on and recreate some of that energy and rejuvenate, then you still have to learn how to play your instrument well. Otherwise, you will become that person that, and again, the majority of my students are the person you described. It's the I'm way smarter than John. I'm way smarter than Sarah, but why did they get the promotion? Why didn't I get it? Well, it's because if you are technically 10 out of 10, but your communication skills are a 3 out of 10, do you think your organization perceives you to be a 10 out of 10 or a three out of 10? You are only as good as you can communicate. So, as you improve your communication skills, you start to shine your light more brightly in the world. Whereas a lot of my students tend to think, oh, but it's my boss's responsibility to see the brilliance in me. No, no, it's not. It's your responsibility to shine brightly, not their responsibility. Yeah. So when you take it upon yourself, things change. Filler words as well. And so like, do you know what I mean? We do that because we don't understand the power of the pause. Whereas the pause allows people to process what you're saying. If there's one thing you do if you listen to this episode is record a video of yourself and and you'll thank Jay and I later because you'll see things that you didn't realize. You know, the reason we hate the sound of our voice is because when we hear ourselves on recording, that's not what how we sound to ourselves. And the reason you have a different sounding voice to yourself is when you're speaking, the vibrations go through your bones and your muscles and then it hits your ears. You know, one thing I've learned on my journey is that education has the power to transform lives. But for many, traditional college just doesn't work with busy schedules and financial realities. American Public University is designed to fit your life, not the other way around. With more than 200 online degree programs to choose from, APU's eight-week courses start every month. But what really stands out is the incredible value APU provides. Beyond their already competitive tuition rates, APU eliminates out-ofpocket costs like application fees and ebooks. And most students can take advantage of their opportunity grant which gives you 10% off undergraduate and M's level tuition. Plus, you get access to comprehensive career and mental health resources to support your entire education journey. Whether you're looking to expand your knowledge, pivot to something new, or finally complete that degree you started years ago, American Public University makes it possible. Remember, investing in yourself is always worth it. Take the next step in your journey by visiting apu.apus.edu. There's such a need for ownership and accountability for our lives. Because like you said, and I've I've for a long time believed that someone was going to come and spot my talent and see it and nurture it and help me build up. And I realized no one was coming and that no one could see it because they were too busy in their own lives. It's not that they were bad people or they were bitter or they were wrong or they were not able to spot talent. Everyone was busy. People were just busy in their dayto-day. They don't have time to spot your skill and your talent and nurture it. If someone's listening to this right now and they're saying, "Vin, I love what you just said. I'm an introvert. I agree with you. There are times when I can and can't perform or can't bring it out. How do I hold energy? How do I create energy? If I have a meeting coming up today, if I'm going to be on a Zoom call today, what do I do in order to make sure I'm at my best? Because right now, I'm going from meeting to meeting to meeting to meeting, Zoom call to Zoom call, I'm just exhausted. First thing is you have to learn how to protect your energy. For example, yesterday I was I was doing a couple of different podcasts while I'm here in LA and I didn't leave the hotel room. The podcast wasn't until 4:00. I didn't leave the hotel room at all to the point where my videographer freaked out and and and just knocked on my door and said, "Are you okay? Are you still all right? Are you all right?" I'm like, "Yeah, I'm conserving my energy." Yeah, I'm a fairly high energy person. So, I have to conserve my energy. So, all morning is again, I didn't talk to anyone this morning. I had to wait to talk to you because if you don't conserve your energy and you just give it all the time everywhere, then you won't have any. So, that's number one. Got to conserve your energy, right? And then the second thing is have go to I call them menu items. have some menu items that you can quickly reach for. So, one that I love is Wimhof, the breathing technique, right? The the guided bubble breath. Two cycles of that before a meeting. My brain is oxygenated. My body feels good. I feel like I just I just feel revitalized. Can you break the pattern down for us just in case? Yeah. Okay. So, if people don't know YouTuber, but it's it's 30 deep breaths in and out. So, 30 of that. And then after that, at the end of the 30th one, you breathe out and then hold your breath. And you'll be shocked how long you can hold your breath for. You'll be shocked. The first time I did this, I couldn't believe I could hold it for a minute and a half, 2 minutes. I thought I was going to die. I thought I was dying. And then at the end of you holding your breath for a minute or so, as long as you can. After that, just take a deep breath in, hold for 15 seconds, and release. And that breathing technique alone has energized me even when I am doing Zoom calls at 3:00 a.m. in the morning cuz I work with some US clients. It just gets me three cycles of that, two cycles of that. Incredible. I was not a believer in that at all when I first learned. I was like, "Yeah, surely that's not going to work." What? Breathing. I do that every day. Changed my life. Yeah, I agree. My goto technique to energize myself The next one to me is a snack, something healthy. I love blueberries, raspberries with a little bit of cream. Oh man, a light meal. I love it. Right. And then favorite beverage. My go-to is coffee. I don't know. That's I feel like some people are going to tell me it's going to kill me, but I love it. So, have your own go-to. Yeah. Right. Have your own goine. A routine. I have a playlist of videos that crack me up. I I don't know. Have you seen videos that made you laugh? Save them. Save them because they're packed. Put you in a great mood. Put you in a great mood. I'll give one last one for me is again I've just got so many things out of my menu items. No, I love it. I also love orchestral war music. Okay. So like Han Zimmeresque. And if you're listening to Interstellar Han Zimmer while you're doing Wimhof as you take a sip of coffee. Oh man, I'm going to try that. Yeah, give that a go. I'm going to give that a go. It's an intoxicating mix. I love that. Yeah, my my routine is a lot more simple, but but I love No, but you're right. Everyone needs one. I I went on my world tour two years ago now. We did 40 cities across 3 to four months around the world. Got to come to Australia, a place that I absolutely loved. It was my first time there. I didn't get to come to Adelaide. I hope I do next time. I know. We're offended, by the way. Yeah. Oh, no. God, please don't be. We we did Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne. And honestly, there was something about the Australian people that stuck with me. I was telling you this a bit earlier. There was this banter back which I loved. I would banter with people on stage. I' I'd, you know, little quips and things and they'd come back at it and I loved it. And the other thing was everyone was so grateful. Everyone would just say to me, they'd be like, "Thank you for coming all this way." And I was like, "Wait a minute, you came to see my show. I'm I should be thanking you." knew and I was I was so grateful that people turned up in, you know, the thousands that came out and it was just amazing. Everyone was so grateful. There was such a great energy. But the reason I brought it up is I realized that my tour schedule was extremely different from a keynote because a keynote is I got to do it once and then it's done. This was every night if not every other night if not sometimes in Australia. I did two shows back toback in the same day on the same day because we we were at the Sydney Opera House for two days where we did two shows in one day, one show the next day. So, three shows across two days and then went to I think it was Brisbane or Melbourne that was last. And so, my tour schedule was different, but I realized I had to stop eating at 12. My show was at 8:00 p.m. I had to stop eating at 12. I'd have a protein bar around 5 6 p.m. to give me that little bit of boost of energy. I'd have a sparkling water because I preferred that just before I went on and then I would have to eat. I'd get off stage at 10, do a meet and greet for two hours, and then I'd eat at midnight every day. Now, that's not my normal schedule at all. Like, that's completely against my normal schedule. But I had to find that. And I think that's what's so interesting about this is that I'm not So, I sleep at 9:00 9:30 every night. That's when I'm in bed. So, for me to be having to eat dinner at midnight is so abnormal. But I found that there was a different routine. I also didn't go out to any noisy places before or after the show because I had to be on vocal rest. I knew I'd lose my voice if I went to a restaurant or whatever. So for three, four months, I didn't go to a restaurant while I was out in all these cool cities. Everyone's like, "Oh, did you go to this place? Did you?" I was like, "No, I didn't go to any of those places because I would have lost my voice and then I wouldn't been able to perform." And I think that's the important part of the craft that there's a dedication and a surrender to this is what matters and therefore some of this other stuff is going to have to fall by the wayside. And what you just said made me think the importance of finding what works for you. Yes. I I feel like people have this misunderstanding that I should just have this energy naturally. Yes. Back to your original question, right? I should just have it naturally and if I don't have it naturally, there's something wrong with me. It's like no you had to not eat for 8 hours to get yourself into the right state. And I think that fasted state helps us think more sharp and helps us be more on point, right? And it takes work to show up with energy, intention, and purpose. Mhm. Whereas I think people have this illusion in their minds, oh, it should be easy and weak. Yeah. Or there's something wrong. No, no, no, no, no. There's a craft to it. Like even preparing for a Zoom call, some people go, oh, is that a bit much? But that's how you show up. Three Zoom calls back to back like structure it with 15 minutes in between. You have to reset. Mhm. Even for me, it's doing these podcasts, traveling overseas, I'm exhausted. But then again, if I choose to give this energy, I need to conserve it. I need to have ways to rejuvenate it. And I have to go through the process. And you have to commit to the craft. You have to commit to that discipline. Whereas, if you one night did eat at 6:00 p.m., well, then that show wouldn't be as great. But you were dedicated and I think that that is what people have to really understand is there are ways to do it but you've got to take yourself through the process. Yeah. Absolutely. For someone who's listening to their voice now, they they listen to us. They they're like, "V, I'm going to listen to this." They start listening back to their voice and they cringe at their voice because we all have this strange and by the way, we all have it. I have and I want to say that here. I have that too. No one likes listening to the sound of their own voice. There's something uncomfortable about it. First of all, do you know where that comes from? And then what do we do about that? When you're listening back and you just, you know, your whole body, your face, everything. It's not just listening is when you look at yourself on video, too. And there's a reason for that. The reason we hate the sound of our voice is because when we hear ourselves on a recording, that's not what how we sound to ourselves. The way you sound to yourself, you have a deep, rich, barry wide voice, right? And the reason you have a different sounding voice to yourself is when you're speaking, the vibrations go through your bones and your muscles and then it hits your ears. The vibrations of the sound is going through a more dense medium which creates a lower pitch sound. So when you hear yourself via an audio replay, that's going through the airwaves. So your voice sounds thinner and higher pitch. So you immediately go, "No, no, no. I don't I don't sound like that. I sound like this. I don't sound like this." And they freak out. So that difference in the medium in which you're receiving the sound causes people immediately to reject because it actually does sound different. The reason why people are like looking at the on video is because it's flipped the other way. Yeah. They go, "Oh, I don't look like that." Because you look at yourself in the mirror every day. Whereas on camera, it shows the way other people see you. Whereas when you look at yourself in the mirror, it's flipped. So your entire life you've seen yourself a certain way, right? Unless your face is perfectly symmetrical, right? Then you go, "Oh, no, I don't look like that." So immediately people go, "I look weird. I sound weird. So the thing you need to do there is desensitize it, mate. Just listen to yourself over and over. Like do you listen to a podcast now and do you still freak out about your voice? Not anymore. Not anymore. Right. Because you're desensitized. So what happens is the calibration happens. What you hear in your head and what you hear on an audio replay, the calibration starts to just do this. And then gradually you can't hear the difference anymore. And then when you look at yourself enough on camera and also in the mirror, the calibration starts to happen. You go, "Oh, that's me. Oh, that's just me." Yeah. It's painful, but if you go through that, you get over it. Yeah. It's all that discomfort in the beginning that we all need to go through. I was we were talking about this earlier. So, I was really fortunate because when I was 11 years old, my parents were so scared that I was so shy and so insecure that they forced me to go to public speaking school. And so, my school had an extracurricular activity with the London Academy of Music, Drama, and Arts. For seven years, I had about three sessions a week of 2 to three hours each. It was fairly rigorous and you'd have to take exams and the exams were pretty rigorous, too. So, every year you'd go to this exam and you turn up and the examiner would be in a room and before you even meet the examiner, you'd get you could take a book. Yeah. It could be any book you wanted, but they were going to pick any page and ask you to read it in a emotive, dramatic, and powerful way. Ooh. And so they could pick any any page out of a book. The next part of the test was they would give you a topic 15 minutes before. You'd be in a library. This is when we didn't have, you know, Yeah. Exactly. There probably was the internet, but there wasn't this. They wanted to keep you away from all of that. You'd be in a library and you'd have 15 minutes to prep a talk about the dangers of smoking or whatever it was, a topic that they' picked and you had to structure a talk out. And the talk had to be 5 minutes long. And so you had to do that. The third part of it was you had a prepared presentation with visual aids. This is when we still use projector screens and the slides. Yeah. And then you were tested on that including the visual aids that you used. And I'm sure there were a couple of other things as well. And then you'd get graded and it was uncomfortable. We'd be sitting in a class and remember we're all like young teenagers at this point. So, everyone's even more judgmental and more, you know, and you get into the class and you're all making these weird faces to try and warm yourselves up and they're telling you to enunciate and pronounce all of the letters differently and you're doing all these silly things. Your friends are laughing at you and it's exactly what you're saying. The reason I brought it up is that it was years of discomfort. It was just years of looking silly, looking stupid, sounding bad. Yeah. Giving a bad talk, giving a bad presentation, walking into a room to then all of a sudden that discomfort changed to confidence. And I find that for most of us, especially as you get older, going through that discomfort becomes harder. For example, if me and you, I don't know how old you are, but I tried to pick up a sport a couple of years ago in the pandemic. It was much harder for me to learn a sport at this age than if I played it in my teens. So when you're meeting people in their 20s, 30s, maybe 40s, 50s, and they're trying to change their instrument, they're trying to change their voice, that discomfort is so much harder than when I started at 11 or whatever age you started at. How do you encourage people to sit with that discomfort, to go through that? Because it is harder. Such a beautiful insight that you shared there. The reason it was easier for you at 11 is because you were new to a lot of these behaviors completely. The behaviors haven't been ingrained in you yet. Whereas when you're 40 now, and I'm 38. So once I'm 37, so yeah. So So once you're 40 and you realize this, you've done 40 years of repeating one behavior, two behaviors, a series of behaviors over and over and over and over again. That's why it becomes harder, right? And all of a sudden it becomes way more difficult because now you have to unlearn something that you've been repeating for that long. So I think there's really difficult there. One other point I wanted to mention what you said there too is that you said you went through years of discomfort. A lot of people have this idea that again it should just be a quick process. And if I'm struggling for a period then something's not right. It's like no no no struggle that's good. That it means you're in the process of change right? You're going through the process of change and you have to be willing to put in that effort. go through the struggle and I think the thing that people are resistant to is failing because I I believe and I want to ask you this question. Did you learn more from your successes in those situations in those public speaking exams or did you learn more from your failures? Failures. People don't want to fail now. I don't want to make a video put it out on Instagram where I've made a fool out of myself. But that's how we learn, right? I don't want to do a speech where I I forget what I'm going to say. But that's how you learn. You have it happen. Then you go back and you go, "Okay, why did I forget? Oh, it wasn't well rehearsed. Right? Why did I forget? I didn't know how to deal with my nerves. Now you need to learn how to rehearse. Now you need to learn how to manage your nerves. So all of a sudden, if you don't fail, you don't know where your weakness is. And then you don't know what to work on. So you got to pay the price. I think I think you've got to pay the price. Back to your original question. No, that's a great I am so glad you brought that up. Yeah, just so important because I think people just now are resistant to failing yet we learn far more from our failures than we do from our successes. For sure. So, for the person who's 40, oh my god, Vin, how do I now? How do what do I do? Am I doomed? No, no, you're not. It's just when Jay was 11, he was able to work on three or four different behaviors at the same time because you're so elastic, right? There's so many things that could change about you when you're at that age. But when you're less elastic in your older years, you just now have to focus on one thing at a time. So, I've coached a few CEOs of some pretty big companies here in the US. And it's so funny because when I map out their I used to do I don't do it anymore, but when I did it and I mapped out their their coaching program and I showed it to them, they got upset cuz they're like, "Wait, you're making me work on my volume for 4 weeks and that's all we're doing?" This feels stupid. And and in those moments, I just had the courage to go, "Well, look, you then pick somebody else. It's okay. Get a refund. Pick somebody else." Because I kind of said to them, you're 50 and you've been speaking with a very default quiet volume for 50 years. Do you expect to be able to change that in 48 hours? Because every cuz I get them to send me a video every day, right? And when they every time they send me a video, I go, "Watch what you're doing for the first seven days." Even though you know we're working on volume, your default volume is like a 4 out of 10. And that's when they go, "Oh, far out. I keep defaulting back to it." So the older you are, you've got to realize one thing at a time. One thing at a time. It but it drives people crazy. I want to do seven things. I want to do hand gestures. I want to learn how to storyt tell. I want to use volume. I want to add pitch and melody. I want to do all of it. But that's also what leads to no change. That's why most people never change the way they sound because they're not willing to sit and be patient and do one thing at a time. Yeah. A good example is thinking about it like driving. Yes. How many bad driving habits have we picked up in the last 20 years because we haven't been tested? We haven't reviewed it. Scary, right? And I had to I recently had to redo my uh driving test because of moving here and, you know, getting a state ID and all that kind of stuff. And I realized just how many bad habits you pick up. Now I've believed myself to be a safe driver and a good driver and a responsible driver. But still the fact that for 20 years no one's watched me and checked on me driving. You lose that. And so that's 20 years of driving which is something we do every day which is similar to speaking. You're doing it every day but no one's doing what you you're not right. You're not recording yourself driving and sending it to someone. You just made me think of something when you said driving as well. I mean, when you think back to the four stages of learning we talked about before and you talk about unconscious competence to give people a sense of what's possible once you really go down the path of mastery of communication skills. Think of an area in your life where you have achieved unconscious competence. It's driving. Mhm. Whether we're good or not, that's another thing, right? But but most people, I would dare say sometimes too, you're kind of unconscious when you're driving because you you're so good at it. You've done it every single day of your adult life. So you've gotten to a point where you are unconsciously competent, right? And then people always ask me now, they go, "Oh, when you communicate now, are you thinking about gesturing? Are you thinking about storytelling? Are you thinking about I go, "No, I I don't." Because like with the car, when you think you want to go to the grocery store, do you have any thought now into, "Oh, I need to open the door. Oh, I need to check my blind spot. Oh, I need to adjust my No, it's all automatic." So the reason why I try to inspire my students to improve their communication skills because I I say to them that means in the very next conversation you have with a client, a customer, a family member, you can just think I want this outcome. I want to be able to help them in this way. Your skills and abilities will just take you there. Mhm. And that's why you come across in these podcasts and the professional people who do this, it's so natural. And when people are sitting there going, I want to be that natural, but it requires a dedication to mastery. Yeah. And that's the point that I really want people to get. I remember sitting and watching one of my favorite comedians who became a friend and he was just brilliant. Like he would have the audience laughing and in raptures like in the palm of his hand, right? And but everything looked and felt completely off the cuff. So he'd literally just turn up on stage. It wasn't like he wasn't in the flow. Sometimes you watch a comedian and you can tell there's an arc and you can tell there's a story and you can tell it's planned. Yeah. This guy would literally come up. He'd be like, "Hey, does anyone has anyone read any books lately?" And like someone would name a book. He'd be like, "Oh yeah, I read that page." And he make a joke out of it. And then someone else and he'd be like, "Oh, what's your favorite song right now?" And it's all a conversation. Brings out a song. Oh yeah, I can't believe he said that lyric. Makes a joke about the lyric. And it was unbelievable to watch. And I spoke to him afterwards and I said to him, I said, "Who did you learn that from? like where did that come from? He said, I've practiced it so much that it looks spontaneous, but it's completely trained. And I think that's what everyone wants. Everyone wants for it to look spontaneous. But that took years of discomfort, courage, failure, training, mastery. When I'm telling a story or hosting a podcast, I'm not trying to sound like anything because your voice has for so many years become that way. And I'm at a point in my career for sure. I was asked to give I just gave three keynotes in the Middle East in January and in Dubai and I said to myself, I'm going to walk into these and just channel. Like I just want to go in there and just be I'm not going to I'm going to have some notes. I know what I need to talk about. I know the the title of the talk, but I'm just going to be and I had so much fun there. I I had so much fun and it seemed like the feedback was great from the audience, whatever, but it was just so much fun for me because I was like I just want to feed off the energy in the room and they were all and my friend my one of my best friends he came with me and he was like JJ every talk was different. He goes at the 1 billion summit you were hilarious like it was like watching a comedian and then he goes at Mind Valley it was really deep and like you know philosophical and then at the other place the corporate event it was very professional. He was like there were three talks in three days and they were all completely different. I was like because I was just feeling the energy of the room and I love that. Walk me through how many hours, how much time, how many years have you seen people take to get to a point where they feel that sense of unconscious competence not of not of mastery because that can take many years but of a sense of comfortability where it's flowing and they don't feel phony and contrived anymore. Where what have you seen? It depends on your What have you seen? I I I've seen unbelievable change within 6 months and this is someone who has become problem aware that this thing has been destroying my relationships, destroying my career growth. And when that pain becomes that great and you become problem aware, I can't believe how quickly some of my students have been able to change. And then I've seen it take as long as three or four years. And where I still Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. where I'll get an email 3 to 4 years later and they go, I can't believe it's taken me this long to email you. I almost feel a little bit ashamed. I'm like, no. No, because it took me 10. So, that's amazing. That's incredible, right? Because it ranges so much depending on the intensity of the pain they feel and and the realizations they have. Mhm. I have to bring it back to what you said before because what you said before about you going to three events and just going with the flow, I know the people listening to this right now while you were saying that they were clenching their butt cheeks because they were like, "Ah, that's so that's so freaky." And I wanted to speak to that because what you just described to me is one of the ultimate benefits of mastery in this arena and it's freedom. You were free in each one of those speeches. You were free to go where the audience wanted to go. That's one of the things I I I rarely ever get to even talk about because I don't get to speak to others usually who who are so proficient at this skill set. That's ultimate freedom, Jay. When you feel something, you think something, and you're immediately in the moment able to articulate it with clarity and make people laugh at the same time. That is so powerful, man. I'm getting shivers just you saying it. It's like goosebumps. And to know you're going into that, being able to do that, like again, it's achievable for you listening to this, too. What I love about it is that there was so 
