ike for these grandparents, it's like you shouldn't have a kid to try to bring your dead son back. Yeah. Because what is that kid's life going to be? That kid's life is not going to know his parents. Yeah. And who's going to be the mom? Who Are they going to get a donor egg that they don't know where it came from and then implant that into a surrogate or like she said, maybe a niece? Like Yeah. What is this child's life going to look like? Yeah, it definitely like if I had to pick, it doesn't feel right. It really just doesn't feel right. But I mean, it it's not it's not so awful like if he were to if they were to continue his DNA and you know, they brought an amazing human into this world, like I mean, once the human gets here, like everyone's going to be so happy and in love, like whoever the like people are that are taking care of the child. But at the same time, like if this was never even a an an idea that floated through his head, Yeah. then I don't it just doesn't feel fair I I'm kind of sad they mentioned the frozen sperm to his parents. Mhm. Because if that would have just been a conversation between them, this dilemma wouldn't have even happened. Yeah. And I think honestly should have been. That's what I'm saying. Like I don't think they should have even like involved the parents and been like, "Yeah, we're freezing his sperm." Well, that's not even part of the treatment. That's a decision That's like a smart decision you make as a couple because you're going to go through this this recovery process. Yeah, well, I I had a friend in high school that he got testicular cancer literally like a year out of high school. And so I remember hearing about the fact that like they froze some sperm just in case and blah blah blah and like that's a decision you make as a couple. But like I don't know. I I've also seen a lot of posts on Reddit that are like my husband is terminally ill and everyone's asking me if I'm going to get pregnant. And it's like why? You're already dealing with the loss of somebody. And And then to come in and raise what would have been your child together would make it even that much harder. I think for a lot of people that's heartbreaking. But then I think there are some people that are like I'm so thankful that I do have a piece of my husband or my partner left. And this one is probably one of the tougher ones like ethically, morally that we've like really I think what I would do if I was her is that I would just respond to the parents and be like, "I'm mourning. I'm sure that you guys are mourning, and this is not a good time to have a conversation about that. Um we can definitely talk about this, but not right now. I think we need to This has been 2 weeks since he passed. Exactly. That's what I'm saying. Like we need to we need to heal more. Like we're in a really vulnerable moment, all of us. And we need to heal more before we have this conversation. And then at that point, like you know, if the parents are like have some really like compelling reason, if they're like he always said that he wanted to pass like, you know, whatever like what And like if they're really so convincing that they're like, "Look at his diary as a kid and this is what I don't know." Whatever wife would Whatever Yeah, I think the wife would probably knows, and I think the right answer is probably just no. But if there's some, you know, after they're not in the thick of mourning, if there's some really genuine reason where where it makes sense, then they can decide. But right now, I would be like, "We all need space. We all need to think about this." And I think that's rational. Like you should not make any major life decisions after a great loss like this. But even still, let the dust settle. But I think if he didn't explicitly say anything about having a kid regardless if he's here or not, it goes away. So I got a lot of comments. OP like I'm going to show you guys this is a throwaway account. This is me scrolling to the bottom. And this is me scrolling all the way up to the top. Mhm. OP comments extensively. the scenes here. Extensively. saw behind the curtain. I know. Wizard of Oz style. So I'm going to try to like do them the best I can. I really want to do this one justice because I think this is like probably one of the hardest posts we've ever read, and I want to just I'm like want to cry at this. Like this is probably for me, I just I can't imagine losing your partner like this and having to deal with like his parents coming out of the woodwork 2 weeks later and being like, "Hey, that sperm?" Yeah. I just lost my son, but hey, that sperm?" Well, and it's it's even sad enough to to need to make the choice to freeze sperm in that situation because you know there's a risk. Yeah. And then to have it actually happen, it's just I don't know. Yeah. There's one comment I want to start with. The comment I want to read is in reply to something else. So I kind of feel like I have to read the comment from an outside source first. So this person goes, "Damn, I don't even know what to judge this one. I can see most sides since as of the moment I haven't come to a definite decision that I can't expect to say if one of you is the [ __ ] over the other not the [ __ ] To start, I understand completely why you feel the way you do, and I'm terribly sorry for your loss. I have a couple questions, though. Did you and your husband actually decide what he wanted to do in this case, or are you speculating? But obviously you have the authority now. Are you keeping it from his parents because you feel they're yours and only yours, so no one else can have them, and you decided you won't use them? Deciding what someone else should be doing with their lives is not your right. So using that to justify not giving them it is sort of assholery in that case. They love their son, I'm presuming, and raising a child that shares their son's DNA while teaching the kid about his father and history doesn't seem so bad. The grandparents are [ __ ] for not being as sensitive as to you as they should be by asking so soon. However, at the same time, if they're in their 60s, then they don't have much time to lose anyway, and they might be thinking that by you deciding against using them, you're going to move on from him somehow. Grief is weird. I think the priority is what would your husband want? Mhm. But if you or them honestly don't know if you wanted to pass on his lineage or whatever reason, then it's a me versus the in-laws question over what each party wants. And yes, legally you have the authority, of course, but being an [ __ ] isn't only judged on legalities. The context is key. Again, sorry for your loss and all the added grief. So, long-winded, great point. a pretty good post. It it It was very probing, which I appreciate cuz I think these are all questions that we just said. Like, what would the husband really want? Mhm. So, OP goes on to say, "My aversion to their plan is due to what I know about why he wanted to freeze his sperm. He wanted to be a father. Specifically, he wanted to raise kids with me. I know it wasn't about just passing on his genes because both adoption and sperm donors were also options we discussed, and he was fine with those possibilities. I just can't imagine he'd be comfortable with having a child with his DNA out there who neither he nor I had any hand in raising." Yep. Yeah. And on top of that, too, like who he's mixing his DNA with. Like, not being able to decide that. Yeah. Yep. You know? Like, he didn't get to pick like, okay, if I die, like I would want my my DNA to be passed down to this human or that human. It's just like bringing a child into this world is a serious decision. I don't Like, I think, you know, unplanned pregnancies happen, and everyone makes the best of that situation, and obviously people are typically, I should say, are very happy to have a child, but he's gone. Like, this autonomy in this decision is gone. Yeah. So, to just assume or to let his parents just take over the sperm and like not really know what's going to happen to it, I don't think is it definitely doesn't seem like it's what he would have wanted. Yeah. Mhm. And I'm I'm trying to put myself in the situation of him. Like, if I were to die and had like my eggs saved and whatever, would I be that mad if my parents decided to like pass down my DNA? I don't know. So, it's so hard to say cuz he's not here, and like the decision isn't him, you know? Right. And it's it's obviously not going to affect him in any way at this point, but That's true. But you want to honor the person that everyone loves that had passed away. That's right. And my gut feeling, I still feel even a little bit weird about it if they didn't have the explicit conversation. Yeah. But I feel like it should be her or nobody. Exactly. I agree with that. I think where I'm getting really caught up with this one is I'm not so much concerned about the people that are trying to make this decision. Like, the grandparents, aka like his parents, Mhm. and the wife, okay, like, yeah, they're affected clearly. Like, they're directly involved right now. But I look at this child, and I don't know if this is from me having known people that are adopted and constantly feel this like burning, aching desire, like, "What about my birth mom? Like, I love my parents that raised me, but what about my birth mom? Why did she give me up?" Right. They There's something to be said about, you know, children that go through this experience of not knowing their birth parents, who they feel a part of them is missing, and there's a lot of trauma with that. I just look at this, I'm like, it's just such an unfair situation to bring a kid into for selfish reasons of my son is gone, I want a piece of my son. It to me, this seems so selfish. and or continuing the lineage. Any reason that the grandparents have is to me is selfish cuz it's like, no matter what you do, your son is gone. Mhm. Yeah. And I'm so sorry about that, and it's so tragic, but to bring a child into the world to appease you, what? That is really an interesting concept to think about. Like, the grandparents, like, are they like, who is raising them? Are they raising them? And if they are raising them, Yeah, it I have 60-year-old patients that die every day. What are you going to What Where's this 1-year-old going to go? Is family automatically going to take them on? Take her them on? Like, what? It'd have to be the mom. Or the wife, I mean. But uh however, I will say, um I I mean, even when people are adopted, like, and they're wondering about their birth parents, I think a part of that is because they know their birth parent is out there, you know? Or they don't know anything about them or something like that. Like, I think I don't I think it would be different if you're like, I know that my dad died and this was my situation, you know? Um because he'd be he would be able to learn about him. The grandparents are going to tell him all about him, you know? Yeah. But I um But I guess like even still growing up and hearing about your dad and not having your dad, Oh, there's That's a big it's it's it's going to It's traumatic either way. It's not a ideal situation, and I mean, the only thing I will say though is that with a lot of situations, it's not ideal. Like, there's things from my childhood that I'm like, damn, like I could have been like a cooler person if this didn't happen or whatever it is, and I it's just like life is crazy. So, I don't I think more of this story is just really focusing on like the wife. Yeah. And like, what she wants to decide. And like, if she thinks that that's kind of [ __ ] up and crossing the line, she's not the [ __ ] Like, it's not the [ __ ] for this. And so, with that being said, someone comments, "I hope you decide to have his child. I'd be the same. It's not theirs to use." And she goes, "Me carrying his child isn't really on the table." Yeah. He's gone. Yeah. And I feel like for her, he's gone. There's no bringing him back. Then the sperm should be gone. Done deal. I agree. I think he's gone. As There's He wanted to raise a kid with her. Yeah. It'd be such a hard place to be put in though. Like, I'm just picturing if I had people that loved the person that I loved like as or like, you know, so strongly, too, and they were just so desperate, and I was the one who had to make the call to like break their heart. Like, I You know what I mean? Like, I I'm sure she's just feeling so crazy right now. Or like, just so torn and like is so fresh. Yeah. Two weeks, you guys. Like, again, like, two weeks. She just lost her life partner. Mhm. Someone who she They were actively planning to have a life and kids together. I can't even imagine like typing this all out and thinking coherently. Like, Yeah. I feel like clarity will come with time. Yeah. I really do. Yeah, and again, it's been about two weeks. Like, sit on it. Don't make any rash decisions. Like, I saw somewhere where you shouldn't make any major life changes for at least 6 to 9 months after a death. Just don't give it to the parents. Yeah. No, it's it's not theirs. And it's not what he I really don't think that's what the husband would have wanted. And that's what I would just say. I'd be I would literally be like, "I don't like the fact that like this decision is put in my hands because I don't like that I'm holding back something that you guys really want. However, I know it's not what he wants. And if I thought even the slightest bit if that it was what he would want, then this would be a different story. But I am so confident that it's not. So, like, I don't want to feel like the villain here, but I am the one who is able to legally call the shots, and this is just what I think is right." Exactly. Legality is also a very important point in this because depending on the paperwork that they filed when they did do the sperm donation {slash} saving it, depending on what state, apparently it's a big thing. So, one of the top comments is, "Not the [ __ ] Though to this Though, the decision may not actually be yours to make anyways. If you contact the sperm bank where it's frozen, they may likely have procedures on what happens in the situations of the donor's death. There may be terms that he agreed to in the paperwork that may state ownership transfers to yourself, or it may state that the sample is destroyed. Contact them and see what they say. Though, if ownership is now yours, I don't blame you at all for saying no." OP replies, "Ownership is mine." And someone comments back, "You are so selfish." And she goes, "For the legal ownership passing to me after his death?" {question mark} And the person literally responds back, "Everything is me, me, me." Okay. This woman just lost her [ __ ] husband. Wow. This is where I get mad of people being able to be anonymous on the internet. Ugh. Because what a goddamn troll. Literally. Yeah. I I think was I I was saying this to you, Lauren, right? We've talked about this a lot. I think that it should be outlawed that people are able to just create all these different usernames and just be trolls on the internet. Like, if you want to say what you want to say, then have a face and a name to it, you know? Like, I think that's totally fine to express yourself and have that freedom of speech and everything, but it is so it's gotten so toxic and dangerous, the fact that people can just hide behind these like, I love CutiePie563 and say evil things to people like that is so wrong. So I don't know. It says a lot about the people that do do that. It says a lot that you feel like you there's a reason you're hiding behind some fake little name. There's a reason. There's clearly a reason. You're a coward and And they have nothing better to do. You're being cruel for the sake of being cruel because what is this going to get you? Who is this going to benefit? You are being cruel for whatever malicious reason that is. Well, they're just taking out whatever like frustrations or whatever the [ __ ] they have to Everyone's fighting their own battles and yeah it could be it could be an outlet. Um wait sorry Morgan could I interject for a second? Yeah. So I I'm just thinking that um when you talked about the adoption thing and you're like even like people like you know like are always wondering and stuff like that. I'm going to actually what I was going to add to that is I was going to say hey I'm actually going to phone a friend for a part of this and I'm going to reach out to my roommate Erin Sela and have her interject on this story. But no but like what I wanted to say is that because we're talking about like should there be a child be brought into this world or not? Yeah. Then I think people who are adopted are going to be like what so I don't know who my parents are and so I shouldn't have been brought into this world. I just think they're going to make that parallel. Really? I'm saying? What do you think Justin? get that much of a vibe because at the same time when you're talking about like babies that weren't planned it's like that's what you say about yourself all the time. Oh I am literally a and I am an oops baby 100%. Well actually my mom is which makes me like technically one. I think it was super valid because my ex was I think technically adopted but she knew her biological dad but didn't know her biological mom at all or something. And I think everything she said was very on point on point. with what she experienced and kind of that so there was nothing that stuck out to me where I'm like okay. That's fine. I was just saying because we're talking about the concept of bringing a life into the world or not. I'm just I could see that people like I could just see people making this parallel of being like wait so you don't think I should have been brought in the world just because I'm [ __ ] up over the fact I don't know who my parents are my biological. No no no no no no no no. I mean again I think it would be a point to like we can add this in because I think this is very important to have. I'm going off of like I had a college roommate that was adopted and I've had other friends that were adopted and they are very very happy they're there. Right. They're very Yeah. thankful for their adoptive parents. They love their adoptive parents. They have a great relationship with them. But I've also heard the opposite where people's adoptive parents haven't been great. But from my experience no matter how great the relationship is with the adoptive parents my friends that have been adopted have always like had this yearning to find their birth mom or find their birth parents. And I just think it's like this kind of like it's just this innate nature to like either whether it's like know where you come from know who you are a part of. I don't know I don't I don't know personally but I just think it's a conversation to be had and I think I will include because I in my head when we were recording that segment I was like I'm going to send her the story and be like hey I know you're adopted. I know you have a great relationship with your birth parents. I'll let Erin tell it if like I start crying. Uh so it's so tough like this [ __ ] just [ __ ] hits me but I'll let Erin tell it if she's willing um but Erin like kind of went through that experience so we're going to phone a friend. I know [ __ ] I would for sure have that I would for sure have that yearning. Yeah. Put yourself in that situation you'd be like I know and like I said I I in no way like Morgan I know your heart and I know everything you're saying. I totally was like on board with what you're saying. I just know that we we get so sick of people like making assumptions and so I was just trying to be like It's good it's good to clarify so Yeah. if um if you tune into the YouTube version I'll phone a friend. I have no doubt she'll respond. So that'll be on the YouTube version and here's where I'm going to cut so I can get my [ __ ] together. So I think we covered everything with that one. I think thank you for bringing that up. I I obviously don't want people that are adopted to feel like they're any less or shouldn't be here because I think that it's definitely important to to make note of. what you were saying. It's not what I was saying but I think it's very easy to when you feel personal about something to kind of infer. I think it's really easy to like misinterpret things and so I don't I don't want there to be any misinterpretation. Like a child that's adoption adopted is just as valuable and their life is just as important and are like I just don't want anything negative inferred from that. I'm just saying like in this situation I think it is unfair. This it's just sperm. It's not even a child. It's not like it's inseminated eggs. It is purely sperm. Yeah. Which like how many how how many seeds have been flushed swallowed or thrown away? Yeah. This is just sperm. This is not a baby. Wiped. Wiped up. Towel towel time. Towel time. So I I'm glad you brought that up because now we can include it and just feel like all of our boxes were were checked in. Let me just shut the [ __ ] up. Someone else want to read? [ __ ] I don't know if I'd be a good reader. Well I kind of like it. I honestly thought that reading would be way more smooth but then I remembered that I have like like reading anxiety. Same. Where it's like whenever people would popcorn me I'd be like no. Oh I love popcorn. No. Shoot me. I like it's like I know how to read but it's just like the the fluctuation of my voice and like when when commas come and I don't see them and they all of a sudden they're there and I'm just like I pause and then That stuff just doesn't bother me. Yeah it's all with that being said here you go. Really? Yeah we're going to pass it DOWN THE LINE. WHAT? You're going to popcorn me? That's [ __ ] up. I just told you my trauma from grade school. All right let's let the real show begin. I needed a break after that last one. It was intense. So we have a lot of awards on this one. Am I the [ __ ] for not taking my husband to my brother-in-law's funeral after he went against my sister's wishes? My sister's husband was sick for over 6 months. In the past couple of months he got worse. They have two kids nephew four and niece six. I agreed to take the kids in to look after them and help my sister focus on her husband. A week ago I got a call at 6:50 from my sister crying telling me her husband had just passed away. It was so devastating. I was still in bed when I got the news. I checked on the kids and they were asleep. I had to go see my sister and be with her. I asked my husband to keep an eye on the kids and warned him not to tell them about their father's passing till their mom got there and could tell them herself in her own way since she made me promise to wait till she left them herself. He nodded but said telling them the sooner the better. I told him it was none of his business and he needed to respect their mother's wish. He said I could go and he'd watch the kids. An hour later my phone rang while I was with my sister and it was my husband telling me to get home ASAP because the kids had a breakdown after he told them their father passed. I was dumbfounded and so so mad and helpless. I asked why he told them but I couldn't hear his reply because the kids were crying loudly in the background. Their mother heard and figured they found out. She told me to drive her to see them. I apologized for what my husband did but she didn't respond. We got home and it was a mess. My heart sank seeing the kids crying for their dad like that. Their mom took them inside the room and shut the door. I lost it on my husband and he said he didn't want to say anything. Even made them breakfast but when he heard the kids talk about what they were going to do when they when they see their dad he felt the urge to tell them, I yelled at him for going against my sister's wishes. He apologized to my sister, but she said she doesn't want to see him because the kids stopped talking from their trauma. He wanted to go to the funeral, but I told him my sister doesn't want to see him and I'm respecting her wish. He got upset saying I excluded him from family events, which was unfair and flat-out petty. He said he couldn't help it, so I shouldn't hold him accountable because it just happened. But I felt ashamed and a major letdown from my sister because she stated her wishes and he didn't respect them. Um, he's an [ __ ] Huge [ __ ] I want to cry thinking about that. Like if I was a mother and those were my wishes that I wanted to be the one to tell my kids that, that's just why. Like I don't They're going to be traumatized. Why? Like why did he think that was his right? Well, it was so explicitly Like she made it so clear, too. like he's trying to be like, "No, they need to know now." No, they don't. They're When a kid is that little, they're going to remember who they were with and how they were told. Oh, I just like just picture them. Picture them over breakfast. I just can't wait until dad's not sick and we can go to the lake. And he goes, "Well, actually, your dad died this morning." Yeah, literally. believe he would decide going to be going to the lake." How could he decide that was his responsibility and his place? Like that is so sad. No, and then him being like, "You excluded me from a family thing." You [ __ ] lost any rights to be around that family the minute that you [ __ ] their life upside down. You went against her wishes. You ruined those kids' moment of grief that they should have shared with their mom. Exactly. Their mom. Their mom should have been there. The fact that they found out and they're bawling without their mom there, that makes me sick to my stomach. How old are they again? Four and six. six. They're babies. They're [ __ ] babies. I They don't know what's going on. They need to be with their mom. What What it was wrong with him? Like if it was if it wasn't made clear beforehand, I would be like it was a mistake. Like he thought he was doing the right thing. He's being honest. But it was very clear beforehand. them. And what did he say to He was like He literally was like, "I feel like they need to know." Well, it I feel like I'm such I feel like I'm just the biggest trust guy ever because all of these issues I always go to trust, but from you literally now can't trust him. You asked him to do something and you trusted him to not do something. And it's a huge thing. That's And especially when we're talking about like how much childhood moments like that really make an impact on you as a human. us. They really do. So like those things are huge. Like huge. And yes, I I I have faith that the kids will be able to, you know, get over that and live a happy life, but I mean that that moment, obviously it's going to take a lot to like Time. that their dad passed away, but like Therapy. But hearing it from him, I'm sure that they'll get, you know, they'll move on from it, but that he just added a difficulty that was so unnecessary and not his place and so [ __ ] up. This like makes me scared to let anyone watch my kids, honestly. kind of feels like he didn't care. Exactly. It It feels like it didn't feel that big to him where he's just like, "Oh, guess what?" Or like it was exciting news that he wanted to be the one to like break it. Yeah, it's very weird. I I would be the exact same way if I was that person's significant other. I would be like, "I don't know if I want you to around any of these people anymore and I don't even know if I want to be around you because like that that was a huge breach that you did. That wasn't something small. No, and I'm I know I'm quick to be like divorce, break up, but this our first review in the podcast. But I These girls just say divorce and we're like, "Well, yeah, we're not I mean, so it's easy. And this is not my relationship, so obviously I'm not attached to it. Yeah. But I just look at this as if my partner would have violated my trust, gone against my wishes, disrespected me, disrespected my family, traumatized my niece and nephew. I just like I look at all of this and I'm like add all of this combined and then the fact he's whimpering and oh, Yeah, now he's the victim. Also him being like, "You're excluding me from a family event." This is [ __ ] a funeral. This is not a [ __ ] holiday party celebration. You're being excluded from a funeral because you just ruined that kid those kids' grieving process. He's playing victim. I'm looking at this person and I'm like, "Let's add up all the reasons why you're an asshole." Yeah. And I'm like, "Do I want to be with this person?" Yeah, so it's It reminds me of the the lady who threw away all the pictures of the late mom. He ruined this like It's the same [ __ ] And I look at I didn't watch that episode yet. I look at how traumatic death is. Like I I'm so [ __ ] in the head. Like I'm so scared of losing my dad that I literally go and check and make sure he's breathing when I wake up in the morning and he's not gone before me. Like I'm terrorized of losing a parent. So like I can't even imagine these four and five-year-old kids who are just like just beginning their little lives and just [ __ ] Absolute [ __ ] of the day. Yeah, I completely agree. He is the [ __ ] She is not the [ __ ] for not taking him to the funeral. Uh, yeah. Uh, which leads into the Actually, there was a mod uh that stickied the comment, so it's at the top Yeah. saying, "All right, folks, it's that time of day again where we remind you to be civil." Yeah, good luck on this one. one got pretty heated. Uh, top comment has a lot of awards. Uh, not the [ __ ] I was babysitting for a family friend while they were at the hospital saying goodbye to their other child. Oh. I knew that their son had died, but I kept my mouth shut and loved on their daughter who was talking about going to see her brother until they got home because it was going to cry. because it was 1 million percent not my place to say anything. Didn't even cross my mind to tell her, even though I had to leave the room a few times to wipe my eyes and regain composure. Yeah, okay. Oh. So But yeah, it's it's 100% not your [ __ ] place to tell. He's an adult. If you need to go in the other room and step back, like yeah, you just lost your brother-in-law. Yeah. Step back. Like Step back. This is not your place, though. I don't understand in what rational mind Mhm. Well, and this is interesting. Exactly. Children that young are easily distracted as well. He really could have thrown on the TV for a few hours until their mom came. No, he totally wanted to hurt those kids by telling them. They were distracted. It almost seems like he wanted to just like have the spotlight. Like yes. Like have the power. Like just like, "Oh, I know this news. I'm going to let you guys know. Like I want to be the first to let you Like I don't know, but like it makes me so sick. He's unhinged. And again again, obviously I don't know like we're not hearing him talk. We are not hearing like his situation, but like from what we do know, this is sick. Yeah. It makes me so sad. And I get every situation is so subjected to the person that experiences it. Like obviously OP writing in is the wife in this situation. But there's very objective information here. It was expressly said, "Don't tell the kids." And he still went against that and told the kids. Yeah. So no matter what else went on in the situation, he had one [ __ ] I agree. one [ __ ] assignment. one job. He did not understand for you guys. the assignment. Well, and the other way to think about it that you kind of lately touched on is now the kids forever have this memory with him. These kids have not spoken. That's the whole reason he's not invited to the funeral, too. Like one, he disobeyed all guidelines, did not understand the assignment, but these kids have now gone like mute, right? They did They did write that that they haven't been talking. been talking. These kids have now because of this trauma and this sadness have decided not to talk. Yeah, the kids stopped talking from their trauma. It makes me so sick. And And I think the reason it makes me so so so sick is that I'm assuming that this guy is like very like in his right mind and very level. Normal. And like Not on does not have any diagnoses, is just a normal dude. Not taking drugs, like not like out of this world. Like I'm assuming these things and so Right. makes me so sick because I'm like, "Who in their rational right mind? Like who do you think you are?" Well, and for kids this young Entitlement. But kids this young to stop talking? Four and five. Four and six. Like make that making that choice at that age to be like, Ugh. Well, I just if someone random like to me like random I mean not super random, but like that's just not my my home is telling me that someone that I love most in the entire universe You also like don't believe it. There's It's just so sickening to me. Like it wasn't his place. Like I want to scream at this man. I want to kill him. I think there's something though where the younger you are that trauma occurs, the more likely you are to actually stop talking. And this is something I definitely am going to fact-check. I like really want to look this up where um to make sure like this is actually a thing, but I think the younger trauma happens at the more likely someone is to like stop talking or shut down. Interesting. I need to see the fact-check. That's interesting though cuz I my first thought was that the younger you are the more likely you'd be to continually just ask out questions and try to understand because you've never experienced these concepts. And I think it's like exactly what you're saying but flip it. You've never experienced these concepts, so you don't know how to deal with it, so you shut down. But I also think though too at an older age you could shut down just because you do understand what has truly happened and you just shut down. Yeah. know. It's called selective mutism. And obviously this is like a very specific circumstance. So, I'm not even sure if I'm going to find anything like directly on this. Yeah. So, there's not a lot on this, but there's So, this one quote, there's also a misconception that kids who can't speak in some settings have been traumatized. In fact, kids who become mute after a traumatic experience are typically mute in all situations, not specific social environments. So, these kids literally could be affected pretty greatly in all areas of their life going forward because of the fact that this man took it into his own hands and thought it was his [ __ ] job, his due diligence to tell these poor children. Makes me so mad. Yeah. There's not a lot on this either like selective mutism after trauma. There's not I wish people a lot on it. There's so many things through growing up that I now look back and I'm like I learned so much in school about things that are just not relevant to me today and I don't regret learning those things cuz I think they help with your brain like developing and understanding just I don't I don't even know. But but what makes me mad is that there's so many things that we can learn. I I still feel like there should be more communication for people to really understand how these things can have an impact because I don't know I think that even like with myself like my mom loves me so much and I love my mom so much and then I still think some of these things that happen like in my childhood like where you know she wasn't trying to be mean at all like or bad or anything. Like, she was a great mom to me, but I think that some of these things have an impact on who I am. 100%. And like we just don't No one No Yeah, no one knows that. Like Well, it's it's nature versus nurture. We are we are a sum of our environment. I think biology plays a big part, but I also think we are heavily shaped by our experiences. Yeah. And I'm starting to realizing more and more like these certain instances as a kid. I'm starting to remember these times where it's like no one was outright like trying to like hurt me or be mean to me, but these things made me feel a certain way that is like shaped who I am now. Yeah. It's just crazy. I don't know I just think it should be more of a topic. So, back to the story. There's not a update. Uh did you realize this was posted 1 day ago? No, but I did look for the update. Yeah, this was posted 1 day ago. So, Update to come. Very very fresh. We will keep our eyes peeled for an update. OP only replies to one comment and it is this. Comment says, "Not the [ __ ] at all. Do not take the responsibility of your spouse's acts on yourself. You clearly expressed your sister's wishes. He made the choice to go directly against them. Your sister had every right to not want contact at all with him after that. Who knows how the kids would have responded or been more traumatized seeing him again?" "You are not petty. You are trying to love and respect and support your sister in her time of grief." And OP goes, "Yes. I agree, but he's been giving me grief about how harsh I was towards him and that I should have let him attend the funeral with me completely ignoring the fact he went against my sister's wishes and she rightfully wants some space from him." Someone else replies to OP and goes, "It's not about you. None of this is about you." on repeat until he gets it. And someone replies back to that. "That's what I was going to say. Tell him, quote, 'This is not about you or any of your feelings. This is about sister and her kids. That's it. He made a choice and this is the outcome of his very selfish choice." Yes. Mhm. Yes. I would honestly I've We've read the most crazy stories. I've listened to the most crazy stories on this podcast, but this like I genuinely don't think I would ever want to see him again. If I was If I was the parent of these kids, I don't think I would I don't think I would forgive him. Like, obviously he could do things to like I you know I'm not going to be He could try to redeem himself. could try to redeem himself, but like as of how he's acting right now, I don't ever see myself wanting to be around this man again. trust. You'll never trust. No, but like him gaslighting her? You're being petty. You're being petty. This is a petty problem. No, petty problems are not this. This is life-altering for multiple people. This is not petty. I think I know this sounds kind of crazy, but I think one of the only things I'd be thinking about why I would want to have a relationship with him is some familiarity for my kids. Almost like like the person who told you this news is in our life and their family. Like, I don't I don't know if that makes sense, but like that would be like to try to lessen the severity. Exactly. Like, that would be my one consideration cuz if you never see him again, it's a random man who just told you this news. Yeah, but I also think the fact that the kids are already so traumatized. Like, this has already been their uncle for the time they've probably been born. Like, I don't know if OP ever says how long they've been married. Um Yeah, no I'm just saying that's like my one thing that I would be like cuz otherwise I'd be like I don't want to see this man again. The only way I would consider it is if he really reason to try to like to try to lessen the severity of the situation. Yeah. I get that. It doesn't mention how long they've been married, so we don't know that, but I think the fact that these kids were so traumatized by him telling them that they went selectively mute kind of already says like it doesn't I don't I don't think him being included is going to make the situation better because if he was already a part of the family and included in a way like You know what I'm saying? Like where it's like he already burned the bridge. Like, there's not anything that's going to lessen the severity of the situation because he's not the person that should have told them. I think we burned the bridge on this one and he's gone. Yep. It would be really hard for me as on? As the as the what or if I was you know as like whoever I am as my partner and my sister I it would constantly put me in a really uncomfortable place where I'm I know where like I side with. I side with my sister and not because she's my sister, but because of the situation. 100%. be so hard. I Like, I would just be like every time I would go to a family thing, I'd remember you were a [ __ ] [ __ ] Yeah. It would just be hard. Like, I I'm not saying they can't get through it, but like it'd be really hard for me. I don't know. Well, we'll look out for the update on this one. But Can't believe that you said that was just a day ago. 1 day ago. Wow. I hopped on that one really fast. know why it always like blows my mind when these things are recent. Yeah. Speaking of recent, this one was 9 days ago. Popcorn. Popcorn who? You. Me? Am I the [ __ ] for cleaning out the fridge without telling my husband? What do you guys think? Finally, like a happy kind of one. Lighthearted on him. Do we know what DH is? Doting husband, I believe. Okay. My DH brought home a metal box that he checks on often during the day when it's in the fridge. When asked about it, he said it contained freshly pickled olives his friend Jason got from his uncle's farm and wanted DH to keep till he gets back from his business trip. I had no problem with him keeping it safe at the bottom of the fridge. DH always asked me to be cautious with the box and not open it as it'd be rude to touch other people's stuff. Yesterday, I decided to clean out the fridge which took me about two two hours from unplugging the fridge, emptying all of the items, grocery, vegetables, containers, and washing and cleaning out the inside of it, letting it settle before plugging it in again. I took the box my husband brought out of the fridge and placed it on the kitchen island alongside the containers. While I was working, I received a video call via WhatsApp from my husband while at work feeling bored asking what I was doing. I showed him I was cleaning out the fridge and he suddenly freaked out and asked about the metal box. I was confused, so I told him to calm down and I showed him where the box was. He got mad telling me I should not have cleaned out the fridge nor even touched the box without telling him. I again tried to ask him to calm down as I saw no big deal about it. His precious box was safe and sound, but he went on a rant about how the box needed to be put back inside the fridge ASAP and told me to plug the fridge in right then, but I couldn't because it was still wet and I wasn't finished cleaning the other parts. Apparently, I pissed him off by stalling and he hung up and 30 minutes later he came home and pitched a hissy fit saying I should have picked a time where he was home to clean out the fridge so he could take the box somewhere else to keep it cool. I said, "So what? It was sitting out of the fridge for barely 2 hours and olives can stand being outside the fridge for a longer period." He said, "I don't get it." and took the box and wanted to leave with it. I asked where he was taking it and he said he needed to go back to work and had no time to explain. I shrugged this whole thing off, but he came back with it in the evening and put it inside the fridge, then complained about me cleaning the fridge without telling him and acting dismissive of his opinions. I argued that what opinions could he have on cleaning out the fridge? He argued back saying he promised Jason he'd keep his olives in good condition and I should have just told him, end of story. I wonder if I messed up. He usually doesn't get that mad unless I've messed up and I think that I have. Is that the end? Um so edit. What the [ __ ] is in the box? No, no, no, no, don't save that edit. I'm picturing body parts. I was just going to say, what body parts are in this I'm I'm over here thinking like sperm. From our other story, I'm like sperm, it's drugs. No, sperm must be Jason's sperm. I know. No, I know that it doesn't make sense, but like that's just where my like where where I'm at right now. Yeah. Like who freaks the [ __ ] out that they're and he checks he checks the box it the box multiple times a day? Yeah, but isn't it like the movie Rat Race where they're trying to keep that heart cool enough to make it all the way through the whole movie and get to the end? that movie existed. god, I don't know if I've seen it. Oh, this is a first. place in Minnesota, doesn't it? Some I I don't know that much about that, but all I know is there's some heart in some like makeshift cooler and they're trying to keep it alive. it sounds really, really familiar to where I feel like I've probably seen it, but but why is he checking a box of olives multiple times a day? Cuz they're precious. Why is he concerned about the olives being outside of a fridge? No one would leave work early for olives, I'm sorry. That's what I'm saying. Also, like I like Justin always is like very concerned about food being left on the counter and like getting food poisoning and the like when I've been to like parties and there's charcuterie board with olives on it, like that [ __ ] sits out for like 6 hours. get worried about olives. My mom leaves pizzas out for like 3 days. No, Morgan Morgan leaves chicken out like all day and that [ __ ] is warm sitting on the counter. I'm like, "Dude, I'm not about to eat this." and she'll cook it up be like, "It's fine, we're good." here is my theory. Think about a grad school high school party, the chicken had a little heater under it and it was heated. I don't leave chicken out for that long, but I think that was for safety reasons. I think that was like for I think it was both. No, I think it was for more like let's not have people eat cold chicken. Exactly. with that [ __ ] though. You cannot. I've been on the bad end of that. I have too, but I think you also have a really sensitive stomach, so Anyone would be sensitive to that [ __ ] E. coli coming up in there, anyone's going to be messed up. you can leave food out for a lot longer than a lot of people think is what I'm going to say. So like I think about the grad school rule. Like if I left this out at a grad school party right now, could I eat it in 6 hours? Yeah, yeah, okay, I'm going to eat it. Like I don't know. Like I've forgotten pizza on my counter drunkenly one night and I'd eat it the next night for dinner. If I left a Chick-fil-A sandwich out overnight, I'd eat it the next day. You bet I'm eating that [ __ ] Those nuggets, that Chick-fil-A sauce, let's go. Those aren't olives in that box. Raw raw chicken, that's different. Raw chicken is totally She'll leave raw chicken out for 2 WEEKS AND AND EAT IT RAW. AND THEN SHE'LL BE LIKE, "THINK ABOUT GRAD PARTIES." YOU are just lying. I deal with this almost on a daily basis. You are lying. Like you think this chicken's good? Oh, yeah, it's fine. You're a [ __ ] liar though because you brought [ __ ] Costco chicken over and you go, "Oh, I think it might be still good." and you open up and I smell it and I go, "No, throw it away." see my nose growing. Morgan, the hero. I'm not Pinocchio. No, I'm not Pinocchio. You guys, I'm Pinocchio. Not not because I'm lying, but because you guys LIKE YOU GUYS ARE GOING TO THROW THAT CHICKEN AWAY. 2 days ago, I discovered a Snapchat filter that makes you Pinocchio and I was like, "I don't know why this makes me feel like Oh, I sent that to her. I was like, "I have a dick on my nose and I I'm not mad about it." It it flops all around. Insert clip of me that I sent to Morgan. You need to redo it. I didn't see it. You guys, I saved mine too. I'll send them to you. So back to this friend, there's definitely body parts in there. Um there's something crazy. This is not olives in this box. But like why would why would they keep body parts? Like It's kidneys. But then why would he not why would he not tell? Okay, what are the updates? So this is this is a husband. Like why would you not tell? Like I'm sorry. Boys don't tell anything. Boys keep secrets. Is that [ __ ] true, Justin? I don't know. Do you think it's true? does that. It's [ __ ] I feel attacked. Um okay, so edit. First of all, yes, I'm aware that DH is overprotective of his box, but he always box but he always acts like that whenever someone asks him to keep something safe for him, like furniture or car parts. And second of all, So this is a regular occurrence. Keep this car part safe for me. Don't let an atomic bomb go off and destroy it. Please watch my chair. I mean, this is what I have to deal with with my boyfriend. Like all of his stuff is like so sacred. Like I didn't realize that like my fingerprints on his drawers are going to like He's being OCD. The fact that multiple people are reaching out and dropping items off at his house to keep safe. Oh, drug dealer. He has drugs in the furniture. What? So take it take a peek at this chair right here. See the bottom of the chair how the bottom lining is like sagging a little bit? Okay. There's drugs in there? in there. You got to put that chair in the fridge. But the minute you said that, I go, "That's where you would sew in drugs." I've seen on TikTok, you guys, this is so wild, but I've seen on TikTok videos of semi-truck drivers or smugglers smuggling [ __ ] in it and they're cartel talk. Oh, I'm on that too. I see the planes all the time. I see the planes. I see cartel talk all the time. But I I see all this stuff where people are smuggling. I see cartel talk, whatever it is, where they literally have like a truck full of wood and then if you pick up a section of the wood, there's [ __ ] it's lined with cocaine. Yes. Tires and everything. I exactly. And so I'm li
