much discovery for me on that stage. And that's what I do it for. I don't do it to show off or or be like, "Oh, look, I don't need to prepare or be lazy or not respect my client." I do it for discovery. And what I mean by that is when I don't plan to that 100%. I now have the opportunity to find and discover in the moment. So there were so many things that I said in those three keynotes that I've never said in my life and that's where I get joy. Yeah. You create and I said that first because I wanted to take it back and say my first experience of public speaking. I want to ask you about yours. I was around seven years old. Yeah. And my mom always wanted to me to be on stage and do things like that and I didn't. And so it was a religious assembly and I was dressed as people from my culture and I was asked to go and sing and speak on this prayer in front of my class. Now I grew up in London. I grew up in an area where there weren't loads of Indian people like me. I'm stage wrapped in a me the part and it it didn't help. Okay. And then I'm on stage in front of all my friends. I'm seven, eight years old, something like that. And I stand up there with this prayer that I'm not that wellversed in or practiced. And I start singing it. I have a terrible singing voice. And that's not humble. There's a difference between a speaking voice and a singing voice. I can't I can't sing to save my life. And I start singing and the whole audience starts laughing immediately. Like just like literally all my friends are rolling on the floor laughing. And now I'm starting to cry cuz I felt really embarrassed. And I look down because I forgot the words. And now I can't see the words because my tears have blurred the words in my paper. So I've lost the notes. So I also don't know the words. And then to make it even worse than that, my teacher walks on stage. She puts her arm around me and walks me off, which is the most embarrassing thing in the world. And so I go from that at 8 years old. And this is why I love what you're doing for the world because you're showing and proving you can build this skill. It is a muscle. And that was my first experience of public speaking. A few years after that, after all the training as well, I was probably speaking to rooms of zero to five people and pouring my heart out into just five people. And even now when I look back, I loved it because I just got to be so proficient and practiced. And so when someone's saying, "Oh, do I have to do this for four weeks?" Or, "Wait, only five people are showing up or whatever those things are." Those are actually really, really beautiful moments. I wanted to ask you, what was your first time public speaking? That was the first ever experience on stage. Have you recovered from that experience? I have now. I have now. But even though I started getting trained when I was 11, I probably didn't get half decent until I was like 17 or 18. Like that's why when you said you can get people then 3 to four years. I'm like that's pretty good because if I started 11, I probably got half decent at 16 to 18. I wasn't good when I was like 12, 13, 14. All those years were just, you know, it's such a common story among many of the students that I coach. there usually is some kind of event when they were younger that has led them to believe that I'm terrible at this thing because there wasn't the right support they you were thrown into that you you didn't even practice you would even you didn't even learn the words right so so again like you you were set up to almost fail when a lot of the oral presentations that we do when we're young that's what they're called right oh you got to do a presentation we're set up to fail when you're 11 and you have to do this presentation in front of your class do they teach you how to use your hands? Do they teach you where to put your notes? Do they teach you how to summarize notes and not write the whole damn thing on Q cards? No. They're setting you up to fail. So, this is such a common story because our school system the entire year has one day where we have to go on in front of the class do and guess what? What? Guess what happens that day? I'm sick, mom. I can't go to school. I'm sorry. And then you say then you miss the one day you have training. And then if you do the training, you're all set up to fail. You're all set up to So, every person has a version of this. My version of this is a little more dramatic because I was older. I was in university and we had to do a presentation for accounting and I was so nervous. I remember going to the toilet 10 12 times. So nervous. And then I got up on stage and I had a sniffle. So I kept I kept touching my nose. I had a sniffle and then I got a blood nose. And then and I didn't realize I had a blood nose cuz I thought it was I thought it was I was just I thought it was just booger. So I didn't know. So I I wiped it. Blood comes across my face. I don't know I have blood on my face while you're speaking. While I'm speaking, I didn't know it was blood, right? And then I obviously a blood vessel went. I was so nervous. Everything was going and then I didn't realize it was blood and I was still talking and then people started laughing and then I tasted blood and the moment I tasted blood, I looked on my hands, there was blood everywhere. I start freaking out. I didn't know what to do. The teachers didn't even know what to do either. Do you know what I had to do? I finished the talk and it was well it was only a fiveminute presentation but I finished it because I didn't know what to do and I panicked and it was just the worst presentation I'd ever given from that point I just thought yep you know what I'm going to avoid this at all costs I'm never going to do it ever again this is the worst experience of my life yeah just and I walked off it just yeah I'm glad there were no videos back then and no photos there's no that's so traumatic well that is traumatic man to actually bleed to be that nervous, to be that stressed. Yeah. That's how stressed I was. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. To experience that, that's I love that. That's where you started. And now if someone watch like when I watch your videos, I'm like, "This guy's a genius." And and it's one of the things I was thinking about as we're doing this and I'm really trying to put myself in your audience's shoes, my audience's shoes, the community that struggles with this. One thing that I've definitely seen as I've traveled and we both have international audiences is this fear that people have around their accents and that can often make people quite unconfident. Yeah. And it's really interesting because obviously when I moved to the States, people really enjoy listening to a British accent in the States, but where I was growing up in London, to me the smartest people sounded American accents, professors, Harvard, Princeton, Stanford. when you heard these professors do TED talks or whatever it was, it was always in an American accent. And it's almost like in England, we grew up on American rap music, you grow up to such a culture that our feelings are skewed towards certain accents. And so if you're from a country where you feel or or a state or anywhere, even in the United States, you may feel like your accent isn't wellreceived. How does how does someone deal with that kind of pressure? I just believe accents are really a problem. It's it's really the articulation and the pronunciation that lets people down because I I I just feel that accents are beautiful. I've got students from all over the world, Jay, and I love I love listening to the accent because it tells a story. It tells me who you are. Where it lets you down is like when I first came to the US, I didn't realize I had so much Australian slang. And Australians use like we shorten all of our words. He's like, "Yeah, man. I want to. Yeah, maybe I won't." You know? Yeah. All right. Like it's just I didn't realize I was doing so much of that. And people go, "Oh, Australian accent is awesome." Yeah. If I if I talk for a sec, you won't even understand what I'm saying if I don't articulate and pronounce my words correctly. Yeah. So I I really believe that and I have this happen all the time in my inerson classes where someone will come and ask that very question and they'll have a Polish accent or or maybe they'll have an Indian accent and then the moment I just get them to overarticulate and practice all of a sudden it completely changes how they sound and and here's where it happens Jay it's because for me for example right I learned the Vietnamese language so I learned a set of Vietnamese mouth movements my big mistake was when I learned English I used the same set of mouth movements in the Vietnamese language to go speak the English language. Fascinating, right? So then all of a sudden now when I speak English, my accent wasn't the problem. The problem was I wasn't articulating correctly. So people didn't understand me. I used to not pronounce my T's. British people are good with this, but Australians and even Asians, I I didn't do it. So I would say things like I can't I wouldn't pronounce I can't I wouldn't pronounce that. And then my my T's I would say free. Oh, can I have three of those instead of three of those? Yeah. And then what people were associating with low levels of intelligence was not so much my accent, but it was just because I didn't articulate my words well. And this can happen in any culture. This can happen in any with any accent. I've heard people with Chinese accents, Indian accents, Polish accents, Russian accents, but when they articulate their words beautifully, oh man, it's it's like you get to listen to a different genre of music. Otherwise, imagine everyone sounded like us. Yeah. There's no flavor. There's no personality. Personality. Again, I do not believe accents are a problem. I believe the problem lies in your ability to articulate and your pronunciation. And here's a quick activity that you can do to help. Yeah, go for it. One of the greatest things I learned that my speech pathologist made me do was first of all, grab a book and every single day you grab a book for 5 minutes, four times a day if you want to take it real seriously. Every time for 5 minutes, read the book and overdo your lip movements. Overdo the tongue movements. And then if you want to take it to the next level, put a pen in your mouth. Because if you put a pen in your mouth, you're forced to overart articulate and do it out loud. And by doing this, you'll start to learn and record yourself while you're doing it, too. You'll start to learn, oh wow, I struggle with this sound, this consonant, this vowel. And as you start to bring a little bit of awareness to it, you go, all right, I need to change the way I'm shaping my lips. I need to change the way. And just going through that process alone, I remember doing that for 3 months. Wow. And I had to do that when I came here to the US because I slurred my words a lot. And in Australia, you fully understand me, Far, right? Yeah. There's no dramas with that, eh? But over here, all of a sudden, I was speaking in Texas and I still remember speaking in Texas for the first time. But it was so sweet. They're like, "I love the guy, but I I ain't got no idea what he's saying, right?" And it was like this weird thing where and then I literally had to go see a speech pathologist even later in my life because in Australia it wasn't a problem. And I didn't realize it too, but when I slurred my words that much, it made people think I wasn't smart. Right. Right. And this is why people in the world think the British are so smart. I Is it just the accent or is it because they articulate extremely well? Right. Right. So you can sound smart in any culture, in any with any accent. Should we get a couple of pens? Can you pass Can you pass us a couple of pens? Okay. Just just so that people realize see what it is. Yeah. And that we also need to do these like I'm I'm I'm probably going to contact you straight after this and go, Vin, I'm I'm not kidding you. I mean this. Thank you so much. What type of pen? Does it matter? Oh, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It could be a Sharpie. Yeah. Yeah. I think the pen, the more challenging it is. That one I think I've already chewed off. Let's not give you one that I've already There we go. This one does not have black marks. No, no, no. Exactly. Look, you can see what I've done with this. Wait one second. We'll do this for a segment. Yeah. But what I was saying, as soon as we finish this podcast, I'm probably going to message you and say, "Vin, can you please I'm going to send you a speech and and ask you to help me get better?" Because I think the mistake is also that you get there and then you don't need these techniques or that you don't need to improve and that you don't need to work on it. Practice anymore. I think about it all the time. So anyway, let's let's Yeah. Yeah. Can you see how difficult this is? Very difficult. Yeah. all of a sudden, right? And I want people to think about this. Who can you understand better right now? I'm not sure. You got to give me more than that, Jay. Okay. So, Vin, how are you today? Feeling a little bit jetlagged. Okay. Because I came all the way from Australia. Yeah. I just got back from Mexico yesterday. Oh, that's great. And I went to a friend's wedding and we had a really good time. Oh, that's beautiful. I'm really happy for him. Oh, so happy for you. It's in doing these things that you start all of a sudden now that I now when I speak, I feel like, oh, I'm so sharp. Totally. I can feel it too. Even just from a few moments because you're forced to stretch your mouth so much bigger to make the shapes to be able to create the sounds. Whereas the biggest problem, and again, this happens in the English language. When you think about the European languages, the Asian languages, we actually don't have to drop our jaw a lot to speak those languages. Interesting. Because when I speak Vietnamese, you know, I can do a lot of Vietnamese with my mouth closed. I barely have to move my jaw. English is one of the very few languages where where when you think about consciously how you're speaking, you have to drop your jaw so much to speak the English language. Well, whereas again the Asian cultures, European languages, you don't have to. Yes. Again, each language has a different set of mouth movements. So, by doing that simply alone, you felt it straight away because you had to move your jaw so much. Totally. I can actually feel like we've worked out. Like that's what it feels like. And that we did it for 30 seconds. Absolutely. And you can keep that pen. Oh, thank you. Thank you. I didn't think you wanted it back. I genuinely feel the difference from such a short period of time and I could tell if I did it for longer, it would make a even bigger difference. Imagine you did that for 5 minutes and you started dedicating yourself to that. My goodness, within a week, yes, you'll notice your mouth moving differently and you'll notice yourself sounding more clear. I accents are not a problem. You got to you got to stop thinking that. People always go, "Oh, I hate my accent." That tells a story. It's your culture. It's your history. It's what makes you unique. And I always love to think of it as it's different genres of music. Yeah. Yes. And that's what we're seeing in music in the world right now anyway. you're seeing languages pour in through different artists and people and it's such a need for that. I wanted to ask you something because this was a big evolution point for me. So from 11 to 18 I went to public speaking school. I got the tools is how I like to see it. But it was only when I met the monks and I started to learn about Eastern wisdom and philosophy that I felt I had something to talk about. And I wanted to ask you how much you weight the balance between what you have to say and how you say it. Both equally important. I I see some books where I read where they go no what you say is more important and then some books say no how you say isn't more important. And I think they they kind of have to do that sometimes because they are an expert in one particular arena. But again I believe the answer is not which one it's both. Both just as critical. Same with me. I think until I found the purpose and the fulfillment from teaching public speaking, I didn't really have much to talk about, right? I didn't. And until I found that, then all of a sudden, I started creating content. Then the content started to take off. And I think it's because I love how you've positioned what you do here. It's on purpose. When I found that purpose and I had the tools and I was able to use my instrument that all of a sudden the world resonated with that. Yes. Whereas before I did make YouTube videos back in 2008, 2009 just for fun, but they didn't really go anywhere because even though I had decent access to my instrument, it just didn't go anywhere because I wasn't aligned. I you could hear it. It wasn't It wasn't on purpose. Yeah. No, I'm glad I'm glad I brought that up because I think a lot of people are are struggling with either or. Like someone may come to you, they may learn all the tools, but then they're going to have to find what they use it for. And like you said, there may be someone else who actually has lots of knowledge. Yeah, but then they don't have the share wisdom or the insight and that's generally the student that somehow discovers me. Right? It's the one that is I have something to share with the world. Right? But some reason every time I share it, people misunderstand me. Every time I share it, it doesn't get the impact that I desire. And and it's the truth because you have you could have the greatest piece of music written by Beethoven. But if you play it poorly, is it the greatest music? And again, it's so interesting because I understand my students so intimately now where I know what they'll say. They say things in their life like they go, I'm just going to let my work speak for herself. Why? Why not speak for your work, too? Right? Well, why can't we do both? Why why are we so linear? Why can't we do both? So good. Right. And when they realize that, they go, "Oh, okay." Right. It opens their mind to the whole idea of I kind of have to take responsibility to shine my light. I can't wait for someone again. And I remember we have a mutual friend, Mel Robbins, right? Mel helped him in my speaking career. At the start of my speaking career, Mel used to flick me the gigs. I couldn't afford her. And and I became the cheap Mel Robbins for a period. So, so I was the cheap Mel Robbins and she was she was amazing and so gracious where cuz she she couldn't do those gigs but maybe she was busy as well and she flicked them to me. That's how she started my career here in the US. That's awesome. I didn't know that. And and she was one of the people that that I saw from her content as well early on where she said, "No one's coming to help you." Mhm. No one's coming to save you. That that's when it really hit home for me, too. I went, "Okay, I'm going to have to go do this myself." Right. And and you take ownership for that. And yeah, because when you take ownership, you step into your power. When you blame others, you kind of lose all of it. Yeah. What about someone who comes to you and says, "I talk too fast." How do you teach people to slow down? Because I think that we're all scared of pauses, right? Everyone's always trying to fill the gaps, even if you're in a conversation with someone. We don't like pauses. I've for years had to practice the ability to say it's okay if I need to look away, if I need to think, if I need to reflect, if I actually just need to take something in, whether I'm on a podcast, on stage, or in a private meeting. How do we get comfortable with slowing down and pausing rather than trying to fill all the space because that's such a natural thing to do. The first thing I would say if you speak really fast, well done for being aware that you do. Most people are not aware of it is a lot of it is to do with your mindset and the state of mind that you're in. When do you think people speak really fast when they're feeling what? When they're nervous, anxious, etc. Right? So, you've got to you kind of kind of have to address it at the core there. So, what you need to do is you have to identify when are you speaking fast? In which situations are you speaking fast? Oh, it's when I'm in a job interview. Oh, it's when I'm going in for my quarterly review. Well, great. Now, you know, in these isolated situations, the triggers are high pressure situations. Okay, cool. That means before you go into those situations, you need to still your mind and your body. Again, it comes back to breathing, right? I I I couldn't believe it, but there were workshops that I was invited to and I did some of them. It was I couldn't believe we could spend 3 to 4 days on breathing. And then I found out there was a 7-day workshop on breathing. I went 7 days. There's so much profound wisdom in the breath. Mhm. And I I did not understand it until I started learning more about it. So again, breathing before you go in, go with the Wimhof breathing. And that will slow down your mind and slow down your your body and then all of a sudden it slows down your speech. The next thing is adrenaline also causes you to speed and speak really quickly. So before you go into a a presentation or something that's making you nervous, get rid of the adrenaline. Some brisk walking, do a couple of push-ups, do some star jumps. I know you call them jumping jacks here in the US. Yeah, mate. It's not called a jumping jack. It's a star jump, mate. So do we call it star jumps in England? Oh, you do? Yeah. The Americans have it wrong. Obviously, who the hell's Jack? So all of a sudden do 20 star jumps, right? And when you do that, you get rid of all the adrenaline. The adrenaline is what makes you shake and also what makes you speak really quickly because when you start to shake it's sending signals to your brain that you're nervous now you start to think you're nervous and then when you think you're nervous now you're speaking really quickly right? So again these things help slow you down. Now those are things you can do before you go in. One last thing you can do before you go in actually is what makes us really nervous is being self-conscious. But you can only be self-conscious if you're thinking about yourself. So then stop thinking about yourself and realize it was not about you. If you're going on stage, it's not about you. It's about every single person you're going to serve. And I'll be honest with you too, coming here, I felt a bit nervous, right? But then I thought to myself, well, it's not about me. It's about me trying to add as much value as I can to Jay's audience. And it's about Jay. I want to connect with Jay. And the moment I made it about you, and I made it about the audience we're about to serve, I had no cognitive capacity left to be nervous because I'm not thinking about myself. So to me, the these three small tools, you got the breathing, get rid of the adrenaline and mindset shift, it helps calm you down. And now when you go in, if you find yourself racing in it, then pause and take a deep breath. And that's how you can remedy it. Cuz if you go in, you're like, "Oh, I'm here. I'm really excited." You take a deep breath and then continue speaking. And right after the deep breath, it's going to slow your speech right down. Even when I did it there, I all of a sudden feel more relaxed now. Yeah. The reason people aren't comfortable with the pause is because they don't know what the pause is for, right? And when you think the pause is useless, that's why you develop the behavior of filling the pause, always talking. Um, uh, non filler words as well. And, so, like, do you know what I mean? We do that because we don't understand the power of the pause. Whereas the pause allows people to process what you're saying. Think about it. Now, listeners, as you're listening to that, the moment I paused, you just did it again. You had a moment to process the things that I was saying. If I just talk really quickly and I don't pause at all when I'm talking, all of a sudden now everything that I say has no clear points because you don't have any time to process anything that I'm saying, all of a sudden everything after a while becomes mumbo jumbo, right? It just becomes nothing. 100%. Whereas pausing gives people time to process. Pausing gives you time to breathe so that you can relax so that you don't speak too quickly. There are so many benefits to I mean think of music again. I love using music analogies because the most important note in an orchestra happens after a crescendo which is what? Silence. They'll build the peak and then all of a sudden the musicians will play and play and it gets to this peak moment and then just nothing and the audience is in awe of what they just experienced. You speak about it so powerfully and it's so convincing. I'm like this is this this has to hit because I I applied that even and that come come back to Zoom calls, meetings, everything. I think it's so important to not feel that the person who talks the fastest is the one who will get their point in. And I think that's sometimes the thing of like, hey guys, so I just really want to share this with you because if we just if we just did this, this would solve everything. Like this is the thing. And it's almost like you've actually lost all importance because of that pace. Also because there's no clarity. Yes. If people don't process anything that you say, there's no clarity. Yes. You have to think about communication is not what I just send. It's how it's being received, right? It's not, "Oh, I've sent it. It's done. It's out there. What do you think?" I I don't even remember what you said. Yeah. And I think I think that's a that's a big mistake. And And often people do that again because they don't understand that the way you deliver has an impact on how others receive. Yeah. I really appreciate your switch to the audience consciousness versus the us consciousness. because it seems really small. It seems really obvious. It seems kind of that makes sense. Yeah. But it really is everything. Yeah. Because all of a sudden if you're thinking about being impressive, that's a really hard place to live from because now you're judging every word that comes out of your mouth and judging whether it's impressive, whether it's powerful, whether it's profound, whether it's whatever it is. And now you actually have no thinking space to actually be profound, impressive, and all those things you wanted to be. It's just not possible. Whereas if you were thinking, hey, what's that person in the audience struggling with? Mhm. Like what are they really struggling with? What's their challenge? What's what's the thing that and that's why that's how we started this conversation. I was like, what's everyone worried about when they come to you? Because to me, that's the most important thing. And if I know that what they're worried about is their accent, their voice, their whatever it may be, now all of a sudden I can address that. Yeah. And I can speak to that. And actually, I can make them aware that I'm aware of that. And that's the same in a meeting. I think sometimes if someone said to me in a meeting, Jay, I know that you really want the podcast to be a special place for people to really learn, grow, and heal. I know that it's a big priority in your life and I know that it's something that you put your heart into for 6 years. This is how to make it better. All of a sudden, I'm like, I'm all ears because I feel like you actually get where I'm at and where I'm coming from. Whereas, if someone said, "Hey, you know what? I've just got this really great idea I want to share with you." All of us, I'm like, "Well, I don't know if it's a great idea or not because I don't even know if we're on the same page." Yeah. And so walk me through some of the ways people can establish by what they're saying and how they one you did this beautiful video. Well, you're on stage, but I loved it. I absolutely loved it and I realized I do it unconsciously and when I saw you explain it, I was like, there you go. That's why that's why you're such a great coach and such a great teacher. It was that idea of meeting people where they're at and you were saying that when people come to you and they're like, "Oh, Vin, you're amazing on stage and you were great." and they speak really quietly and you said if you come back to that and go yeah what did you like about it? Yeah. Or even worse like oh thank you so much. Oh because you bring sometimes you bring that stage persona straight down. Yeah. Oh and and and how did I learn that? Because that's what I started with. Yeah. And you see them just and then they freak out. But that's what I wanted to ask you. So how do we do that in a meeting? How do we do that in our daily life? Yeah. where sometimes what we're saying but also how we're saying it, we're not even giving it the importance it deserves. How do we establish more authority and influence when we are sharing an idea, when we are proposing a method? You've heard a lot of body language experts say you match and mirror people. Yes. Right. To build rapport, to make it about them, to build a connection, you you you match and mirror their body language. But what a lot of people don't realize is you can also match and mirror their vocal foundations. So when you think about the voice and you divide it into five different categories and you think it from the the perspective of rate of speech, volume, pitch and melody, tonality, and the pause, now all of a sudden you have these five factors that you can start to think about when you're talking to people. So if someone comes up to you and they're naturally speaking a little bit quickly because they're nervous, right, like that, and they're speaking a little bit lower volume and the melody is not as great of a range and and you notice these things, then you match and you mirror where they are with their voice, too. And then people immediately feel like, oh, you're approachable. Yes. And it's not that we stay there because some people go, "Oh, but that's that's inauthentic. That's not right." No, no. That that's you being a great and dynamic communicator. That's you going, hey, I'm going to meet you where you are to make you feel comfortable, to build connection, to make it about you. Meet them where they are. And then slowly you take them back out. So if you're meeting them where they are, you go, "Oh, hey, thank you for coming up and saying hello. But hey, can I can I just ask you quickly too? What did you really take away? What was the key thing you took away? Oh, you took that away. Oh, that's awesome. Hey, I'm so happy that you came up and and had a chat with me. All of a sudden, now once you're in rapport, you can take them to where you want to go. And that's something you can take on a Zoom call. You meet them where they are, right? If someone's really excited about an idea they want to bring to you, you can meet them there with that excitement to show them respect, right? As opposed to a lot of the times previously in my life, someone will come to me really excited and I have one gear, Jay, and I'm I'm just one gear. I'm like, "Oh, that sounds really cool. Yeah, that's great. Awesome, man." And I didn't realize that. Then all of a sudden I made them feel less important. Whereas now all of a sudden I've learned that ah when someone comes to me with a peak emotion even if it's frustration I will mirror that for them to show them that hey I feel you. It's like ah man that sucks. Right. So it's not just in the words that I use. I deliver it in a way so they can hear that I'm with you and I'm on the same page. Yes. It's one of the fastest ways to build rapport with people. Yeah. I think that's so important because you could start up a Zoom call and someone turns up and they're in a really sad low mood and in your head you're thinking, "Come on." Like, "Come on, bring more energy." Right. And it and then you get frustrated and now you feel you're dragging them up a hill. Whereas if you were like, "Hey, I just wanted to check in with you." Like, "You're all right. Yeah. How's it going?" You lower your volume, too. You meet them where they are. You're like, "Hey, you know, I noticed on the other call you weren't, are you okay?" And all of a sudden, people are way more likely to open up if you used your instrument that way as opposed to, "Oh, mate, what's going on?" Yeah. What's going on, man? Come on. Look at the weather outside. It's amazing today. What's going on? They're definitely not opening up to that person. But I didn't have that sensitivity growing up. No sensitivity. I didn't know why so many of my relationships when I was young would fail. Like I remember one of my partners when I was really young where I would ask her I'd say to her on a Friday night I'm like hey I know we got dinner plans tonight but the guys are doing a land party and we're going to go play CSGO. Can I go? And she'll go yeah fine just go then. And I just went you are the most amazing girlfriend in I I thought you would have said no. And then I went next day she broke up with me and I was like why? And I'd listen to Backstreet Boys and I'll be like why did she break up with she? But she said yes. And that's when I went through that era. I was like, "Women, it's so confusing. It doesn't make sense. You said I could go." And and it was because I wasn't listening to the emotion in the voice. I didn't even have that gear, man. I just thought what people said, "Oh, that's it. I take you for you said so. It's fine. So, it's fine." And we justify it. Yeah. What do you think? No, but you did say that. But you said yes. Yeah. I I know I did, but but that's not the point. And And then Yeah. Yeah. But but again, all of a sudden having this sensitivity now, I've got so many different gears now, Jay. And and that's the the analogy I love to use too is that because sometimes a lot of people feel that oh there's only one version of me and J this is the only version of me and I'm this version of me in every situation. That's like having a car with one gear. We are so much more dynamic than as a human being. And I get my students to think about this all the time. Think about when you're angry you use your voice differently. You use your body language differently. When you've done something wrong and when I've done something like I've maybe stayed out with the the guys too late one night. I come home I talk different to my wife. I'm like, I know. Yep. I'm sorry. And I'm very sheepish. You're you're different when you've done something wrong. We use our instrument differently in every single one of those situations. But when we don't consciously think about it, sometimes we can default to just one gear. I show up to the interview the exact same way. I shopped and we show up in just one rigid gear and we go, why am I not standing out? Why don't I get more attention? Why don't I get that promotion that I deserve? Yeah. You've got to learn to be more dynamic. I'm I'm really glad you made that point because I was saying that to you earlier. When I'm on the podcast, I'm a certain way because it's a conversation. But when I'm on stage, I get the license to be funny and uh banter with people and bring people in the audience into that conversation because I can. Yeah. You're a big version of you. Totally. I I always say that when I'm on stage, I'm the 360 version of myself because I get to be all things to everyone that I want to be. Whereas here, I'm I'm having a onetoone conversation. This is kind of what I'm like when I'm having a one-to-one conversation with a friend, a family member, whatever it may be, because that's my natural way of being. And then if I'm making a video where there's no people Yeah. I find it that's like the most minimal version of me. Really? Yeah. Because it's to me it's all about energy exchange. So if I'm in a room full of 10, 20, 30 people, maybe 10,000 people, there's so much energy to play with. It can be fun, it can be this, it can be that. When I'm with you, we're matching each other's energy. And then if I'm on my own and it's just a camera, then I can think about who's going to watch it. But really, I'm only letting one% of me be me. For me, for me, I'm saying I'm not saying that's the way for everyone. Yeah. No, but it it brings up a really important insight that I learned along the way, and it's that be as big as the room. Yes. And and and you notice how sometimes people do this incorrectly, and I used to be one of those people. Tell me how you do that incorrectly. Well, well, because I when I first learned about all this, I went, "Oh, wow. This is amazing. I'm going to bring this." And and then and I would bring this to this and then people like, "Ah, it's a little bit of a wanker. Oh, that's that's a bit much, don't you think?" And I used to do that because I I had no sensitivity. I just thought, "Oh, no. This is really good. I I should be like this all the time." And then I realized, "Oh, wow. No, no, no. Just that simple rule of be as big as the room." Again, the version of you, I'm assuming, if you're in front of 10,000 people, imagine we're in front of 10,000 people. We went out, we're like, "Oh, hey everyone. It's great to be here and I'm excited to." It won't work. It won't work, right? where unless you're echoi then it's totally fine that's on brand right whereas all of a sudden you need to bring a much bigger version of you but you have to develop that sensitivity whereas I see sometimes when my students who are new to communication skills they they miss the mark and usually they're too small yes more often than not they have this fear I'm going to be too much no no the danger is not you're too much the danger is that you've been living way too small for me it's always about pushing them up but the fear they have is oh but it's too much I'm like no no no it's too little you're playing too small, right? So again, that sensitivity is important to develop when when you're with 30 people. It's a different version of you and it's okay because you you have to be a bigger version of you to be effective in that medium. Yes. Otherwise, it will seem like you you don't care. Otherwise, sometimes it can come across like you don't care. It's such an art and what we're talking about is obviously the spectrum of, you know, the the kind of like the expertise, the mastery all the way through to the challenge. And it and it does blow my mind that public speaking comes out as the number one fear in the world. And 75% of the world's population is scared of public speaking. And it's something we have to do every single day. And people think, "But I'm not on stage." Yeah, but anytime you open your mouth in public, that's public speaking, right? It is public speaking. You're publicly speaking every single day. And and that also shows an opportunity, Jay. If 75% of people fear it, that means only one in four people kind of do it. So if you can get good at this skill, you now have a competitive edge. And one of the greatest things that I've noticed is that why do creators become such great communicators? They do. I mean, watch watch creators. Why do they become such great communicators? It's because they film themselves every single day and they watch it back and they notice behaviors that serve them and they notice behaviors that don't serve them and then they remove the behaviors that don't serve them. Because one of these things that I ask a lot of creators, I always ask them like, "So, what formal communication training did you do?" They're like, "What? What are you talking about?" I'm like, "I had to learn so many years to learn how." And from that simple pro, that's why I want to bring it back again for the listeners, right? that simple process. If you just committed to the process of recording yourself once a week, you will now have one of the competitive edges that all creators have. They're impeccable communicators. And why do you keep going back to the creators that you love every single week? You keep watching every video. It's because they're able to form a connection with you. What skill are they using to form that connection with you? The ability to communicate and articulate ideas with clarity. So, all of a sudden, now you kind of see that hidden secret there. Yeah. where it's about they just keep putting in the reps. It's I never even put two and two together. It's such a great point that they're actually practicing that exact method and and that videoing yourself. I did it when I left the monastery and I got a job at Accenture. We had someone come and do public speaking training while we were at the company. I wish it was you. It wasn't. I would have been Yeah. I would have been terrible at it at the time. No. No. But they had us film ourselves and it was really interesting to me. I believed at that point that I was I was I was I wouldn't say I was a seasoned speaker but I was a very experienced speaker because even as a monk I gave you know three-hour lectures every day and so there was a lot of speaking involved in teaching from scripture and wisdom and uh the literatures that we had but it was really interesting I as a monk I would sit and speak like you'd sit on a a low it's called a vasasan in the Indian language I don't know what it would be described as I It's a very low bench like you may have seen it in movies or whatever it may be. It's just very very low and it's it's a small seat and so you're sitting cross-legged lotus position and your hands are usually in there and you may use some hand gestures but generally they're rested and it's a smaller group. I would stand and talk if I was giving a talk to university students which I did while I was a monk as well and maybe there'd be a circle of people but then we videoed ourselves and it was really interesting. I found myself in that video just doing this the whole time. And then I watched that video back and I found that that's all I did with my hands at that time and it was so powerful to be able to see how you and it looked so cringe right it just but it was like every time I made a point I'd do this and then I'd come back to here and that's a very like you know as as a monk our palms would naturally be rested meditation whatever and it was so interesting how I'd taken that habit into my work life. All right. Right. And and I was giving a corporate talk at the time and but what I'm saying is I'm re reiterating the point of needing to film yourself speaking like I I stand by it fully and I think you're spot on making people do it. It's so cool to geek out on this because you've had so much training in this arena right now. Even as you listen to this to the listener, you already know what great communication looks like because you've been to a conference and a speaker walks out on stage. within 10 seconds you now make a decision whether you're listening or you're not 100% and you make a big decision whether you you're going to go to your now social media feed or not right so there are certain cues that you recognize as being cues that are engaging oh the way they're using their voice I'm in the way they're using their body language oh I'm in right so you already have all of that information on in your mind but here's where it gets interesting you've never applied any of those ideas in your head to yourself so you'll shocked because again when you all of a sudden watch yourself you go oh no I come across like Barry oh no sorry to the Barry's out there just picked a random name but again they go oh no I come across like Barry oh but that's because again you've been avoiding this your entire life and the reason why I wanted to bring it up again I'm so glad you brought it up again is because if there's one thing you do if you listen to this episode is record a video of yourself and and you'll thank Jay and I later because you will see things that you didn't realize you know you have so much beautiful knowledge already in your mind about what makes a great communicator because why are you drawn to a certain YouTube video and a certain creator? You've already have these internal references in your mind of what great communication is for you. Yes. And all of a sudden now you get to apply the same list of things to yourself. Do you know how cool that is? That is so cool. And and and which brings me to my next point where my students ask me, they go, "Well, well then how do I become myself though? How do I find my because I always talk about this present version of you and you're way too attached to it. Let go of the present version of you. Give the future version of you a chance. And they go, well, how do we make that transition? Well, I say, look, first of all, just record yourself. But then after that, as you begin this journey, I I view the the journey of being a great communicator like the journey of becoming a great chef. So, how would you become a great chef? You you you would go out and you would look for a great chef and you would look for one of the recipes. You buy the recipe book and then you would copy the recipe, right? And then at the beginning, you copy the recipe almost exactly and then you start cooking it and you eat it and you go, "I didn't think that's what the chef was intending." So you copy a little closer and you go, "Oh, I did the method wrong." And then as you copy closer, you go, "Oh, wow. That tastes amazing." And then as you cook it a few more times, you gain the confidence now to go, "You know what? I'm going to add a little more chili. I got to say that the chef didn't put enough chili." You put a bit more chili. You put a little lemon. You put a little bit of more garlic, onion, everything. And now you make it your own. Same thing with communication skills. Yes. If you want to get some inspiration, go look up your top five communicators. Yeah. And then sit down, watch a video, break it down. What are they doing that you love so much? Try those behaviors on. Now you have an ocean of different behaviors to play with. Yeah. And you'll try some of them on, you go, that's not me. Like same with me. I I when I first started speaking on stage, I admired Anthony Robbins so much. I was like, wow. Cuz I read his books. It changed my life. And I was like, I'm going to try to be like Anthony Robbins. And I jumped up and I did it. And it felt so wrong because I was like, this is not me. But that was okay. I had to have done that to know it wasn't for me. I had to have eaten that dish to know I didn't like the flavor. But too many of us judge it before we try it. Absolutely. I'm not even going to try that dish. No. Try it. Yeah. Because that's how I discovered some of my favorite dishes in my life was I I resisted it. I tried it. Loved it. Loved it after that. Right. So again, start looking up a list of five communicators that you love and then just pick a few different things from them and try it on. It's all right. We share one of our favorite communicators, which is a bit more obscure that most people may not be aware of or may not see him as a communicator. It's Darren Brown. I think Darren is absolutely Darren is my favorite person on stage to watch. Showmanship. Yeah, showmanship is a magician's fancy word for communication skills, right? Unbelievable. Unbelievable. Showmanship. Unbelievable. Everything from the humor to the pacing to the body language to when to sit, when to stand. Stage craft mastery. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It makes you want to give up magic when you see someone like that cuz you go, "He's too good. He's too good." For sure. For sure. And I I remember doing a trip to the UK. My wife My wife likes Darren Brown. Not she doesn't love Darren Brown like me. Same same. We followed him to three cities. Wow. To watch the same show. So that's why my wife couldn't stand it anymore by the end of it. But I watched the same show three times. I loved it even more the third time. What you talked about before, his ability to execute what they call plan spontaneity is unbelievable. That is such a skill. Like your comedian friend. Yes. Even though it happens nearly every night, people think it's random. Yes. But it happens every night. Plan spontaneity. He made it look spontaneous every single time. And I appreciated every moment of that. Yeah. I was like, "How did you make that look even more fresh than the first two times?" It's incredible. But that's what it is. It's I love hearing that story that you went there three times even though you knew what trick it was going to do because that's what you're doing. You're studying the art of what worked. And then the other speech that I love, probably my favorite favorite favorite speech of all time that I've listened to the most at least is Steve Jobs's Stanford commencement speech. Oh wow. And it's a really interesting speech because there's no body gestures. There's no use of hands. There's nothing. It's potentially even monotonous. I think he speaks at the same volume pretty much the whole time. Yeah. But there's something just so profound. His voice is phenomenal. What? Talk to me through why that works. Why are so many people love that speech apart from it being Steve Jobs? Because I I don't I don't like to be like, "Oh, it was a good speech because it was Steve. Everyone loved it." No, no, no. There was still something. I mean, the content's insane, but again, think of think of it from the perspective of music. Yeah. Right. There are times that lyrics can be so powerful Yeah. that t
