 in front of you and you gave him this fell face look. >> Yeah, I I mean like for me back then it it was kind of crazy like a guy I was on a mission. I didn't care really what anybody said, what anybody did. If anybody got in my way, I was I was going to push you out. Like I I was just on an absolute tear. I was feeling the best I'd felt in years um and I I remember seeing Chad uh shadow boxing. I was just like, "What are you doing?" Like I don't ever remember seeing him do that once um prior to that point. Uh and it almost looked like it was on purpose. Like it looked like it was on purpose right in front of me. Um and honestly for me it just pissed me off. It pissed me off more than anything else. Uh and I knew there were going to be two cameras, one in each corner. Uh and I looked at both of them and I was like, "Oh shit." Cuz [clears throat] I saw the red lights. So if you see the red light on a camera on the bottom, you know that thing's rolling. So I was like, "Man, they're going to have a field day with the reaction and the facial expressions that I had because >> [snorts] >> I I don't really hide my emotions well, right? Like if I'm pissed off you're going to see it. If I'm happy you're going to see it. Like it's just how I am and and um yeah, I think that the the best photo for me coming from those games or one of the best photos was him looking like this during the race as I'm a half body length ahead of him. Yeah. >> And I end up winning the gold medal, right? So I think that's a lesson within itself, right? Focus on you and what you're trying to do. Not what others are doing and don't try to intimidate other people because it's only going to waste your time and your energy. Yeah. >> That's it, right? Focus on what you got to do. Period, cut and dry. I was watching that video where in the 2016 Rio you race and just like the moment you touch the wall, you just come up and you do this. Oh yeah. >> You knew like >> knew. You knew that you won. >> knew. Yeah, I mean 0.01 second which made you win. Like just It It was It was a close one. 200 fly had it been 201 m, I probably would have lost the race, but yeah, I just you just know in those moments. But 0.01 second, how did you know that you won it? Like it was just 100th. It was pure instinct to go that extra half a stroke. I mean yeah, like in in 2008 when I did take that half stroke, yeah, you had to because it was all situational. Like you know, for me in that moment like I start judging the wall 10 to 15 m before the end of the race, before before I get to the wall. So um unfortunately I didn't judge it well. I didn't judge it very well there. Um but I hit it at the right spot, right? So I was always taught to hit it with force. You got to hit it with force cuz if you kind of baby it, it doesn't stop until you really hit it. So um the half stroke that I took won me the race. And the glide stroke that Michael Cavic took lost him the race. Mhm. If you look at his video, he's going like this. He's finishing like this. His body, his neck, and his hands are completely out of body position. So um >> [clears throat] >> yeah. 100th of a second. >> See, you were so focused on yourself, you didn't care about anyone else. But what in your body knew that you won because until you look at the board or anything Yeah, I mean I >> don't know. Like you just came out of the water >> No, it was I mean the I mean the very first thing that I do when I finish is snap turn and look at the board. >> Okay. I know where my line is. I know where my name where my name is. And if there's a if I see this, yeah, that's it. Like I mean like most like there there are some races where I'll win by a body length or two body lengths and you don't even have to look at the scoreboard, but like some of the races like I mean I think if you add it's like six of my races together, eight of my races No, it's probably six. I think it's six or seven of my races together, the margin of victory I think um six or seven of my Olympic gold medals, the winning margin is less than half a second. So yeah, it's preparation. Yeah, it's being in the moment, the right place at the right time, but um I mean I I I practiced those finishes that I did in every single one of my races 1,000 times, 2,000 times, 5,000 times, 10,000 times. So when I'm in the race, you don't think. You just be. That is it. And what goes on in your head when you're on the podium? >> Nothing. I'm singing the national anthem, that's it. No, before even the race is start. >> Uh when I'm on the block? >> On the block? >> Nothing. Zero. Not thinking of >> so many people. >> anything. >> I'm not thinking of my start. I'm not thinking of my my breakout, my kicks, my streamline. I do my normal stretch my legs on the block, my arm slap. That's it. I don't think about anything. There's nothing I can change in that moment. But right before the race, you're not thinking about winning, you're not thinking about beating. No. Competing. >> Mhm. I'm like a dog trying to get out of the cage. Just let me out of the cage. Like I'm just No. I'm Like again, I'm the shark in the water. If I smell the smallest ounce of blood, I'm going to destroy you. And I mean like you can tell people who are nervous being in the ready rooms, too. It's It's obvious. Like that's why I always have my headset on. I don't want to talk to anybody. I just want to listen to my beats, listen to my my like the the lyrics or whoever I'm listening to at that moment just to put me in the moment to to put me in the zone. And [snorts] you you would listen to Till I Collapse? Eminem. I mean it was everybody. I mean um Wayne. >> me top three songs you always listen to. Or you used to do? >> Uh man. Before you would get out >> It's all Lil Wayne stuff, to be honest. Uh a lot of it was. Uh let's see. Lil Wayne was uh well, Till I Collapse is Eminem. Mhm. Lil Wayne was Uh I guess like A Milli. Like those were big ones back in Young Jeezy was a big one. Uh I mean everyone of Eminem's albums. Mhm. Uh Biggie. Um There There wasn't really one song that stuck out. It was kind of like a hodgepodge of of songs that uh were just going through I don't know, kind of whatever whatever would put me put me in the mood. Uh and honestly I I think during each competition week it would really get narrowed to >> [snorts] >> probably just a handful of songs and I would just repeat. Like I'd get off the bus, restart the song. Walk out to the pool deck, restart the song. And I always try to get in a certain spot of the song before I took it off. Just to give me one final little >> [snorts] >> little motivation before I dive. I mean Here's the last question because I know we're running out of time. It's if somebody listening to this and want to build the same kind of mindset that you have, the same kind of things that you have done in your work, they want to do it in their work. Okay. And they could just pick up three specific principles or habits or rituals or mindset from you, what would that be? Let's say we call it the Phelps protocol. Like what would that be? >> it's so hard to narrow into three different things. I mean I think one of the things that I really live by is dream, plan, reach, right? Like we all have a dream of something that we're trying to accomplish and if you don't have a plan that goes along with that dream, then you're going to be [clears throat] lost, right? And then honestly it's just reaching for it. Look, like was I afraid to drop all of my other sports and just focus on swimming? Of course. But I also was able to learn that it was the best decision for me, right? Like I found something that I love, I enjoyed, and that I was pretty good at. You know, so I think it's really just keeping it as simple as you possibly can, right? Like what is your goal? And figure out the smallest little details that you need to get to get there, to reach it, to to just have a chance to get there, right? I think that's the biggest thing is is people want a chance to do something, but if you're not doing the things that it takes to give yourself a chance, all of this is words, right? It's back to that action speaks louder than words thing. Um I think it's just what you do, holding yourself accountable for things. Um but again, it's it's it's what can you do right now? It's not yesterday, it's not tomorrow. It's right now. It's It's trying to simplify every little small detail. Like again, like I I say this 100 times. Like my career wasn't wasn't rocket science. It was just a lot of small things that were done well over time. That's it. Like don't have an excuse. If you didn't want to do it, say you didn't want to do it. Then if you didn't want to do it, then your goals didn't matter. Right? If your goals are something that matter to you, you'll never have an excuse. Period. Like for me, like you asked me, yeah, there were days where I wanted to hit snooze and not get out of bed. But those goals were important to me. That's what pushed me. It's the same thing now. Like how can I give my kids the best chance to succeed in this world? What does that look like? I don't know. I don't have the answers, but I'm trying to figure it out. Right? Like for me, that's all I think about. It's all my wife and I think about every day. It's how can we do the how can we be the best parents to give them the best life to succeed however they want, whether that's in the pool, whether it's in the classroom, I don't care. Right? I just want them to be the best version of themselves. So it's what do you do every single day? What are your daily habits and what are your daily routines that prove that you are trying to be successful and you are trying to be great. Because if your habits aren't aligned with those things, then you need to look at yourself in the mirror and figure out what you're doing and who you are or your goals need to change. I don't know. I don't know if that answered the question, but it's just like you know, I always hear people like whether it's a weight loss goal or this, that, or the other. Like, "Oh, I really want to do this." And you're like, "Well, what have you been doing?" "Nothing. I've been meaning to do this or I've been meaning to do this." No, just go do it. Right? Like literally just go out and do it. Like I didn't want to go into the gym today. My head just wasn't wasn't great this morning, whatever. But I went in and I got done and I was like, "Woo." Like I I feel different, right? Like you feel different when when you set your mind to something. Like I get in the gym this morning, I was like, "This is going to suck." I was like, "I'm going to put my music on. I'm going to put McAfee on TV. I'm going to stretch." And by the time I stretched, I was excited. And I was ready to try to get stronger. 20 minutes, 30 minutes before that, I did I didn't even want to come into the gym, right? So it's just It it It's crazy to me that if you try to or if you force yourself to do something that you don't want to when it's uncomfortable, how quick your mind and body comes back around and you're not in that shitty mood or depressed mood or unhappy mood. Like for me, like that's that's why I work out still every day. Because if I don't, then I'm not giving myself the best chance physically and mentally. Because for me, for 25 years of my life, I swam damn near every day, right? So some form of exercise. So that's what I have to do now. For me to be the best version of me, that's there's no excuses. I have to get in there for an hour, hour and a half plus, no matter what. No matter how I feel. Tomorrow, I'm going to be sore as hell from the weights today, but you know what? I get through tomorrow, the next day is going to be even better. And then I am going to build muscle. I am going to get stronger, right? It's that process of it. It's the process of things that I think people don't like or skip or give up after they're a week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks into it. Trust it. It takes 30 days to create a habit. It takes 30 days to get rid of a habit. For me, throughout my career, I would do different habits. So when I'm in the pool, I would learn and create different habits for strokes or repetition or streamline or kick outs or this, that, and the other. So naturally, after a 30-day period, it becomes second nature. You don't have to think about it. It's a part of who you are, right? So it's I don't know. It I mean, I guess the easiest way to say things is simplify it, right? Like break your goals down in the smallest terms, smallest things, and take a little bite out of each each part. If you try to conquer everything at once, you're just going to fail and spin, and it won't be good. But what now? Doesn't it feel empty because there's nothing to look forward to? What are you looking forward to now? Uh I mean, for me, everything I'm trying to do in the mental health space, um you know, suicide is the second leading cause for people 10 to 34. Like that that's frightening. Um you know, for me, as somebody who has thought about suicide multiple times, um What got you out of it? What's that? What got you >> brought me out of it? Um just being able to learn more about who I am and and being okay and and understanding that it's okay to share and talk about the things and the feelings that I experience. Where in the past, all I would do is compartmentalize and shove them down. Um but you know, I think over the last 10 years, I've learned that it's okay not to be okay, right? Like it's okay to have a hard day. But what did I learn from it? How can I try to be better? How can I try to not have it affect the whole entire day? Who can I talk to? Who can I go see? What can I learn more, right? Like for me, like I just want to ask questions. Um and I know there are so many people in the world that are probably suffering from similar things that I do, whether it's depression or anxiety. Um and for me, I I I I want them to get the help the the help and care that they need and deserve. Uh you know, for me, being able to see a therapist or having the chance to see my first therapist has saved my life. And who knew that just talking about things would make you happy and make you freer and just be your normal self. Um so yeah, for me, it's you know, chapter one of my swimming career, yeah, it was incredible and and um you know, it's something I dreamt of. Um but you know, for me, I think the next chapter of mental health and and um you know, trying to destigmatize it still or get people the help and care they need and deserve or trying to learn more about it. Um I I just think it's so unknown um to so many people and and um you know, the you know, I guess for me, it's it's trying to help people become vulnerable. Cuz vulnerability is a scary word, right? But if you're if you allow yourself to become vulnerable, then you allow yourself to grow and you allow yourself to change. And sometimes change isn't always bad, right? So um yeah, I I could talk for hours about it, but like for me, the mental health journey and what I'm trying to do on that on that front, um yeah, it's it's there's no timetable, right? Like it's just going to be a never-ending thing and uh something I look forward to. Um you know, for me, again, being able to save a life is way bigger than ever winning an Olympic gold medal. You know, I heard the president of this country say something like depression isn't a thing. Get busy working so hard that depression doesn't even affect you. And in your case, you were working so hard and still it hit you. Do you Do you buy what he was saying? >> Um you know, I I depression is something. It is a thing cuz >> Do you think it won't affect people if they're like just busy working day in and day out? Um I think you you know, for me, I can speak for my personal experience. Um you know, when I did that, I just ended up stacking a bunch of stuff on top of each other and compartmentalized it inside of me and then I just erupt like I'm a volca- like a volcano. So um for me, like when I go through depression, it feels like the room is shrinking on top of me. Uh and I do feel all alone. Um so I you know, and it doesn't matter if I go work out or if I go and do my everyday errands, I still feel like [ __ ] And I still feel really dark and the thoughts that I have aren't good, but I think for me, it's when I do have those moments, I'm lucky that I have the tools that I have to help me get out of them. And that is whether it's going to talk to my therapist, whether it's calling my therapist, whether it's calling my men's group that I'm a part of, whether it's calling a friend, whether it's talking to my wife, whether it's journaling, whatever it is, there are things that I have. Whether it's getting in a cold tub, whether it's sitting in the infrared sauna. There are so many different things for me as a self-care checklist that if I'm not doing those every day, then I'm not being the best me. I I guess I agree to disagree with this comment then because I think if you have your routines and you stick with your routines, then yeah, you're going to be the best version of you and you'll learn more about yourself. But if you do compartmentalize and shove the things down, they're only going to come back stronger and harder. Um so yeah, I mean, I I I wouldn't ignore depression spells. I wouldn't ignore anxiety. Um you know, I those two are the things that I can talk about because I struggle with them. Um you know, I get >> [gasps] >> I get anxiety when I have to go and speak in front of 2,000 people, right? Like but it's it's a part of me. Like that's how you'll see me. Like I'll spin my ring or I have like I have like crystals that I'll take and I'll just kind of ground myself. They're just things that I've learned that that work for me. Um Yeah, and I I mean, my depression and anxiety are never just going to leave me. I can't snap my fingers and have them disappear at will. I can't. It's not possible, right? They're a part of who I am. Um I I don't want to say I'm thankful for it, but um they challenge me. They challenge me to learn more about me and how I work. And I guess I'm thankful for it. It sucks sometimes and it's really hard going through uh the roller coasters of emotions that I go through. Um but again, that's what makes me who I am. And you know, I I I enjoy looking at myself in the mirror, this white beard and this man bun. You know, I don't see what I used to see. And I used to see somebody with a pair of goggles and a swim cap on, not somebody with feelings and emotions. So yeah, the journey that I'm on now is is a pretty cool and it's a pretty fun one. You get some bumps along the way, but it's part of life. Thank you so much. I'm thankful for this conversation. Thank you. Thank you for coming here. Thank you for spending time. Thank you for sure taking us through your mindset. For sure. It was really an honor to to to talk to someone like you. You know, in the middle of the conversation, you said somewhere every time you go ask the goat of anything, they're going to say this, this, this. And in my head, I'm like, "Well, I'm asking the goat." >> [laughter] >> But it's true. Like honestly, like I've gotten to know a bunch of them and like a bunch of the real goats and and like legendary athletes and you know, our our mindset and how we go about our everyday routine or schedule or job is pretty similar. It It's you know, it's Again, that's why I always say it's not rocket science. It's really not. Um it's a mindset and it's making a choice, right? If you had to give a name to your mindset, what would it be? >> [snorts] >> I don't know. I have no idea. I'm bad at that. Think about it. >> no, I mean, I don't know. It's just you know, it's I I But you know, like when you say something like that, that I I don't know if I can take credit for all of my stuff, right? Because you know, what we were talking about uh knowing your competitors, it it it's I I've been able to take, borrow what I've learned, you know, from whether it's other athletes or mentors or just people that I've come in contact with and I've been able to put it into my terms and my way and understand it that way, right? So I think it's you know, I I I I used to hate talking to people. I used to hate talking in general. But I enjoy having like really fun conversations with people and and you know, for me I'm still looking for you know, different ways that I can change my routine to better myself, right? From from any conversation that I have, right? Whether it's a retired basketball player, football player, baseball player, politician, it doesn't matter, right? Like like like for me I'm just always I'm always trying to learn. I'm always trying to be better, right? So you know, I I and in that process, yeah, I'm going to be my authentic self, but yeah, whatever we learn, I think from everybody and you know, the people listening here, like you know, I wouldn't say do it exactly my way, but you know, the things that that we talked about today, if there's something that fits in a spot in your life or fits in your mindset or fits here, like I I do it because right? Like that's what we're all here to do, right? We're we're here to help each other, right? And try to help each other be great, right? Like I I couldn't have done this by myself. Yeah, like I swam my ass off in the pool for 20 years, but like it wasn't all me, right? So I think the more that we can work together, the more that we can accomplish. Thank you. Thank you so much. How are you? Good. I just got done a >> [clears throat] >> a workout. Sorry, I'm late. It's all right. It's all right. I mean, just got out of a workout and now we're good to go. All good. Is you >> [laughter] >> It's all right. It's all right. I know it's it's very American thing to get ice with water. In India, they they don't give you water with ice. Even though we are much hotter country than you. I said over [snorts] there. Thank you so much for watching this podcast till the end. Please let us know in the comments what all did we do right so that we can improve and keep doing that better and what all did we do wrong so that we never repeat it. And at the same time, please give us suggestions of who's the next guest that you want to see on the podcast >> [snorts] >> and don't forget to share this episode with at least one person who will get some insights because one conversation is enough to give people enough ideas to change their lives. I'll see you next time. Until then, keep figuring out. And also, don't forget to subscribe the channel. >> [music] [music]

