ke chairs, car parts, a box. Either way, there's not [ __ ] olives in there. Would you have not opened the box? What if they have opened the box? I would have opened the box the minute it got in my possession. So was OP crazy for not opening the box? Yes, yes. The minute he freaked out on FaceTime, the minute he was like, "I'm coming home from work. Don't touch the box." or whatever he said or like You'd have been in there. I would have box open. And you would have seen all the raw olives. I'm so [ __ ] annoying. I will Google the movie spoilers when I'm in the Dude, she will. It's [ __ ] up. I want to know. And I'm literally and she and she will watch a movie together and then all of a sudden she gets her phone out and she's and then I look over her and I go, "Don't do it." and she goes and smiles and I'm like, "You know you know." I'm like, "Don't you dare tell me." I don't tell you though. You have. No. No, you have before. You you kind of insinuate. Yes, there's something there's something in the look of your eyes that I instantly know the rest of the movie. I can't handle what my eyes do. Then stop Googling it. I have to know. I have to know. I was just going to say I have to know. Oh my god. No, I I have I actually the worst part about this story is that I've taken on your bad habits and I started doing that. And I I like I don't do that with everything. point of watching the movie? I know, I don't do that with everything. I do that with series. I do that with series when I'm just like I am not about to have anxiety for the next like 10 episodes. That's what it is. So like I just need to know like did you actually die or like are you coming back to life? Like I just let's get this out of the way because I don't want to mourn you for 10 episodes and you come back to life. And I don't I haven't regretted it. I think that's why Game of Thrones ending was so heartbreaking for me because I didn't know what was coming. Oh my god. Okay. No. Y'all you guys are crazy. But we're not going to go down that rabbit hole. Wait. Okay. So, before No, what I do want to say though actually from high school, one of my best friends in high school, her dad well, he was like so nerdy, so sweet. They're all quiet. Like no. And And like And like his mom her mom and her dad were married or are still married. Like sweetest couple ever. So cute. Whatever. He literally grew weed in their basement. Well, I don't know if he was a drug dealer or if he just like it was a passion or like a hobby. But if it's in Minnesota, it's illegal. Exactly. And especially what was this like how many years ago was this? Like High school, you graduated high school in 2011. So, you were ages 20 We don't need to talk about these things. Makes me feel way too old. Okay. Back to the story. Okay. So, edit. First of all, I'm aware that DH is acting over productive of the box, but he always acts like that whenever someone comes over and asks him to keep an item safe like furniture or car parts. And second of all, no, I haven't seen those olives myself and I haven't opened the box because I didn't even think I had to. But DH tends to be over protective of his friend's belongings, so I didn't give it much thought. How? Another edit. you resist? Because many were wondering, yes, I unplugged the fridge before cleaning out since I did heavy cleaning. You can see that it is a common method. Just Google it if you're curious. I do it all the time. And to give some info, the metal box does look like a container of some sort, but DH calls it box, so I didn't think much different. I don't give a [ __ ] about how you unplug the fridge. I want to know what's in the box. think that the edits are clearly responding to the comments, which we don't know what they are yet. Go look at her account and see if there's an update. Someone goes, question. What does your husband do for work? Sanitation? Construction? Garbage transportation? OP replies back, no. He works at a marketing company as an assistant. And is a serial killer. Dexter. Someone replies back, please open the box. Yes. Although I am sure he will have changed whatever was on the inside when he took the box with him. [ __ ] Someone goes, I think she opened the box and he was standing in the doorway. That's what I'll continue to think until she says anything else. And that had better be her telling us what's in the box or I will lose my mind. Someone goes, marketing company? Stand down everyone. It's just cocaine. Yeah. Um which I would not be surprised if it's drugs. But then why would Yeah, exactly. Why would you freak out about cocaine not being in the fridge? Like what needs to be in the fridge? It's got to be a lot of cocaine. Like what if it's like a hundred thousand dollars worth of cocaine? That needs to be in the fridge. That [ __ ] ain't in the fridge when it's coming in the planes and [ __ ] No chance. No. No. No. But I I'm sure like for him it's just like if it's in the fridge, I know where it is. Don't touch it. Cuz he doesn't want her to open it up. freaked out about her unplugging the fridge. bring it home. Yeah. He was He was like, you unplugged the fridge? which also like I guess if it was cocaine and you didn't want your wife to find it, why not like stick it under your bed. Anywhere else. There has to be something else. What else needs to be in the fridge? just [ __ ] nuts about protecting other people's [ __ ] Like oh my god. Morgan's like, take these strawberries. I'll eat them in a couple days and I'm just like no matter what, I'm going in from the studio every five minutes to make sure that the fridge IS STILL ON. STRAWBERRIES. YEAH, another comment. Info. Have you actually confirmed that it is really olives in there because it all kind of sounds suspicious. No, because why would I? Since husband said it contained olives. Honestly, I don't know why some people think this is weird. Husband can be a little too dramatic and over protective of others belongings and since it belongs to his friend, then why bother looking inside? It's not like he took it from a stranger. What's wrong with her? She's very trusting. I'm pissed. So, she got literally like a almost a thousand downvotes on that comment. Good. And someone replies back and goes, seriously? Stop whatever you're doing and go look in that box. And if you're shitposting for fun, I don't care. Pretend you open the box and make up something good. Yeah. God, this is [ __ ] crazy. Like What's in the box? I What just makes me mad is that she's like, why are you going to Reddit and asking people for their advice and you're not realizing the fact that this is really questionable. Hi Holly. Like this is so questionable. Like What? If you're If you If anyone's going to freak out that much about something in a secret box and you are like There's something bad in the box. would I look? Like Yeah. No one drives home from work to take the box with them back to work and then brings the box back home at the end of the day. With olives. For real. What kind of olives are they? Are they [ __ ] gold? I don't care if they're imported from Italy with like [ __ ] magical truffles on them. No one does that. Well, that Maybe they've been Maybe they've been ripened for a hundred years or not ripened. What's it called? What's it called? Fermented, yeah. That is true. Thank you. Pickled. Pickled. Pickled fermented. I think they've been used all of them. For a hundred years. Maybe that's it. But still, I would still look in the box. Like Let's go with that so we all can just sleep tonight and not be paranoid. I don't know how you can like literally be that un-crazy to like not look in the box. I would have looked in the box from the get-go. I would have said you're not keeping your friend's box in our fridge unless I know what's in there. Exactly the same. There's not a goddamn chance I would have let that box come in my fridge without knowing what's inside. Is this the end? You just closed your computer. I kind of like that though. It's like a mic drop. Everyone's going to be left wondering what is in the box? Mhm. I think this is a good This is a good point to end. I think unhinged might have to come in a 2.0 version down the road because I got a got a lot saved in this little magical computer mine. But how did you feel? You've been wanting crazy. I really enjoyed this conversation. Pretty good. We cried. We laughed. We did. We did cry and we did laugh. This was truly a roller coaster of emotions. Yeah. I think that's like one thing that's really great about this show is that we are very authentic to ourselves and our emotions and crying is okay. Yeah. Yay. I really don't have anything else to say on this one except that unhinged 2.0 will be coming down the road at some point. That's all we have for you guys on this episode of Two Hot Takes and until next time. This was the best day ever. Until next time. Until next time. Bye guys. Adios.

