Hi guys, welcome back to another episode of Two Hot Takes. I'm your host Morgan. I'm Justin. And I'm Lauren. You've been asking for stories that [ __ ] you up. Mhm. You wanted crazy, wanted out there. Mhm. Who, you? Yeah. Oh, I thought we were talking about the fan base. No, I I me, you, Lauren. I literally will listen to yours and Alejandra's and I'm like, "Oh my god." And I'm in my car and I'm like, "Listen here, honey." Pretending I'm like OP. You're like getting the mild ones. Yeah, but I mean Lauren wants the hot seat. She wants She wants the heat. Yeah, just a little bit. seat. But it's always funny because it's so much easier to form your thoughts about the stories when you're not like Yeah, those don't sound clear. Everything seems to make sense cuz whenever I'm driving, sometimes I'll literally turn my radio off or my podcast off and I say my response out loud and I'm like, "Wow, I nailed that one." Yeah, even when it's the one you already were on. And you already responded to. I literally do the same thing. I think it's it's crazy too because I'll be listening like an episode the morning it comes out just like kind of like proof checking again and I'll be like, "Wait, god, I should have said this right here." Like Ah. been perfect. have been so good. Or like on YouTube, I like read the comments a lot on YouTube to like respond to people and like have conversations on there and someone would be like, "Wait, what if he actually had the bag of IDs because it was something to do with sex trafficking." And I'm like, "Maybe he's not a murderer. Maybe he's a sex trafficker." Like there's stuff you don't think about. Mhm. And I'm like, "100%." And my opinions change too. Like the more I learn about some of these stories or Mhm. or like new information I get from people in the community like engaging on, you know, whatever. I feel like I'm like, "Wait, okay, I'm more educated now." Yeah, but then when we're then when we're on with your dad, it's he'll be so adamant about a point and he'll keep bringing it up until we argue it until the very end and then he'll be like, "Well, maybe it is that." I know. He's just very He's very positive, very just like full of wisdom and I think that's like a great um like opposite of me who I'm like, I'm I kind of go the more pessimistic route with these people because I I read too much on Reddit and I I just [ __ ] Yeah. some [ __ ] Um So, there's that, but these stories today. You wanted [ __ ] wild and I hope I'm going to deliver because this episode theme is unhinged. Let's do it. Okay, let's dive in. So, I actually mentioned this story on Alejandra's episode, the mother-in-laws and moms episode. And I mentioned it in regards to a listener write-in and the listener was basically like, "My mother-in-law, we went to a wedding recently and she kept introducing us in a weird way." And she kept saying, "This is my son, this is my daughter-in-law and this is my baby." I heard that. pointing to her belly. And I was like, it sounded familiar to another Reddit story. So, I went in my archives, dug it up. So, that's the one that's up first. But I do want to say, you know, we had a lot of positive comments on the YouTube that were like, "Maybe it's a cultural thing. Like maybe she's being really nice, blah blah blah." So, that being said, I get some mother-in-laws are very nice and just very friendly, but this story is what gave me my uncomfy vibes and heebie-jeebies. Okay, you ready? We're ready. Very ready. My stepmom tried to walk out of my home with her baby and told me she doesn't need permission to leave with her baby. And it wasn't her baby. God damn it. She married my dad when I was 15 and even though being 25 years age gap, she was more of an older sister and friend rather than a parent. We remained like this for a couple years and I looked up to her a lot. Then the trouble started. I'd only been with my boyfriend for two and a half years before I found out I was pregnant. Not only were we happy, but my in-laws and my dad were happy for us as well. My stepmom wasn't. The excuses started. I was too young. I wasn't married. This wasn't an environment for the baby to grow up in. She also wanted custody of our baby and wasn't happy when we told her we would be raising this baby. This went on for a while. We were no contact with her for a month. That was when my dad fully spoke to her and let her know her actions and words need to be kept to themselves. We were adults. We could make our own decisions. She did apologize to us and promised to stop. We gave her another chance. She had never done this before and she could have been afraid for us, but we told her that we would be fine and always had things planned out if things changed in a heartbeat. She seemed fine for a couple of weeks, but then behind my back, she was pushing my boyfriend to propose. By this point, we were at the start of quarantine. His parents were stuck at our house as they couldn't fly home and my boyfriend eventually decided that instead of telling me this, he went to his mom who always wore the family engagement ring and asked for it so he could propose. I caught on when mother-in-law accidentally let it slip. I sat my boyfriend down and told me that he knew we just had discussed marriage before and both agreed we were happy and how things were in our relationship at the moment. He agreed, but told me what my stepmom told him. I wasn't happy and after talking to my dad, she received a massive lecture from him. She called to apologize and to say she was just looking out for me. I told her, "Thank you, but we were fine." I definitely kept my guard up after that. We had our son in August and my dad and stepmom stood at the edge of our front porch while we stood by the front door so they could see him. My stepmom kept trying to come near the baby, which is where I would step back while my boyfriend would block her while my dad grabbed my stepmom. She kept apologizing saying she kept forgetting, but for a week after that, she was constantly texting me every day wanting to see the baby. My dad eventually made her stop after I told him. And I think um the context of this is like it was really, really early on in COVID and so they wanted to like keep her and everyone else away from the baby. Yeah. Wait, and also I I missed this. How old are they now? There's been no mention of ages so far. We saw her on Christmas. She wanted to constantly hold him. Even went into his nursery as he slept and tried to pick him up as he slept. We always saw this on the monitors and yelled up the stairs for her to leave him. This led to a fight and she left with my dad. I know they had a massive fight because dad told me her reaction was something he had never seen. She had a miscarriage before they met and her first marriage fell apart because of it. He thinks this has sparked up old memories for her. He promised to get her some help the moment he got back from his work trip. My boyfriend works with my dad so he left, too. I've been mostly alone with the baby all week. Yesterday, my stepmom wanted to come by to pick up something. I left her alone to get what she needed from my garage. I left my office door open while I worked and could see the baby who was on the floor in the living area. My stepmom was taking forever so I went to check on her. She wasn't out by her car so I took the baby and looked around the house for her. I found her in my son's nursery packing up some of his clothes. I asked her what she was doing and she told me she was taking the baby for a couple days. I told her she didn't ask for permission nor was she taking him. That's when she got angry, looked straight at me and said, "I don't need permission to take my baby." I told her he wasn't her baby and she needed to leave or else I'd call the police. She continued to pack and ignored me. So, I went to grab my phone. She then followed me down the stairs screaming at me. She was leaving, but tried to grab my baby in the process. When she realized she wasn't going to get him, she screamed at me saying she only wanted to kiss him goodbye before leaving. Okay. I told You're trying to kidnap a baby and then you're mad that they won't let you kiss goodbye. I told my boyfriend and dad and I know things didn't go well for her and my dad because she's now telling me that if I hadn't gotten pregnant, it wouldn't be causing problems in her marriage. Yeah. What is wrong with her? This is truly This is mental illness to me. Like when I first read this one, I'm like, this sounds like a serious episode of like psychosis. This is But how did this happen? Like she I don't know. This just out of How did just that spark it? Like how is there nothing having a baby? I know. Like is Was there any other signs? It sounds like everyone was besties and then this happened. It sounds like the start to a horror film. Honestly. Yeah. This is a horror film. This is reality. Like this is my baby. Yeah. And just packing everything up and running out. watch Manifest? A little bit, yeah. Not fully through it. Oh, you have to get to the end and this will spark some things for some people. Some stuff. Yeah, some crazy baby stealing happening. Yeah, I I think um there's a couple more stories that we're going to read that are kind of similar to this, you guys, but I think there is just something that past traumas and like tension really comes up when people have babies. So crazy. But it like completely took over her. She she was on autopilot. enveloped in this baby now. It's her baby. This is the story though when I heard the one with Alejandra, I was like Ooh, like and a lot of people have written in since and been like my parents, I live at home with my parents and they constantly call my baby their baby and it's almost making me feel like my baby is my sibling. Oh my gosh. Like it's making me feel so weird and uncomfortable. Yeah. And I'm like oh my god, yeah. Like language is just like so important and it's like oh, like my little grand baby. Like it's just Well, it is kind of weird too cuz I think about um I mean my sister had my niece at a young age and and she ended up living with us for a little bit. And my mom absolutely was not like this is my child or anything like that. Yeah. But you know, my mom went into like her mom mode, you know, cuz that's what she's known for her past four kids. So like she would help out and be like very motherly, you know, to a grandma role. yeah, it is a grandma role but we but we all live together. So I think it just like sometimes it was annoying to my sister because it's like it's like okay, no your place grandma. I got I got this. But so I think that can get confusing when you do have a a baby and you're living with your parents when they're so young, you know. Yeah. Cuz the grandma is it's like they go into like this mode where they're like I'm going to help and take care and all this and like when they're all living together then it can make the mother be like all right, let's uh chill out. Yeah. This is definitely not that rational grandparent stepping in behavior though. This is completely completely I just this mental illness. Like this is out of this world not normal. Yeah, this is some crazy [ __ ] Well, I had I had this one thought while you were talking about this and I don't know or I don't actually think this would be the case, but like in a crazy world, what if the stepmom was hooking up with the baby daddy? Still didn't come out of her. Yeah, but still you're not going to be like this is mine. no, I know, but I'm saying Wait, it doesn't work like that? What? Um no, but I'm just saying that like she could be so attached potentially to like the baby daddy that she was like this should have been my baby kind of thing. Update. Update. Update. No official update. I'll um I'll read the top comments and then I'll read some top comments or I'll read some comments from OP. So the top comment, does not seem like rational behavior at all. Please have a talk with your support system and make sure they all understand that this is serious. You need to protect your family and her husband needs to get her medical attention that she so clearly needs. Be safe. Um Yeah. I'm glad the dad is on the side because what like you know Sometimes they I know, you're lying. You're wrong. Gaslight. Yeah. Don't support. Pick the wife's side. I completely agree. Like to have the dad be like no, like get in line. This isn't normal. Like he's constantly reprimanding her. I think is very, very, very refreshing. Yeah, I agree. Um next comment, yikes. You may want to make a police report or have it documented in some way. She also probably should not be left around the baby at all under any circumstances. I'm so sorry you're going through this. Very, very supportive. Like you might want to get a restraining order. Your stepmom needs professional help. Because yeah, this it really does sound like her miscarriage seriously affected her. Yeah. And it's almost like some PTSD really like coming to light and being triggered. Um so some comments from OP. I know I'm already talking to a lawyer and my in-laws have agreed to go with me to go to the police. I'll be doing that first thing in the morning. Uh Wow. Yeah. Well, at least she has all the support around her. Yeah, but still it's just like forever now you're just constantly thinking Well, I have a feeling what's going to happen is they their marriage might not work out. Yeah, sorry. But sorry, go on. Constantly thinking what? Justin? Oh, I don't know. I just like initially when it when she was first saying it, I just thought if it happens to me, if I'm in that situation, I almost think when she first says that, you're almost kind of like ha, yeah, like okay, nobody told me and you kind of think it's a joke Mhm. or something, but then when she's like freaking out, then it becomes scary almost. And then it is the restraining order or Yeah. But it just sucks to even have to involve law enforcement into family matters like that. It's just so weird. It's very common though. No, I know it is. It's so common. No, I'm not saying it's weird in this like overall. It's just if you were in that situation, it just feels very I mean weird to have to call the police on your mother-in-law Yeah. and just go through that cuz then forever that's just kind of a strained It's not ideal. weird relationship you have. It's not ideal and like my family has gone through some [ __ ] Like my brother, one of the first times you met my brother, he talked about like a fight he'd gotten into with my other siblings biological dad and I don't think the cops were ever called on that and like my mom, I've witnessed some like abuse from partners with my mom and like the cops were never called on that, but like they definitely should have. So it's like I wish they would have been. But even even though they weren't, those things still last forever. They do. Like that trauma sticks with you. It's obviously it's it still affects me. It's shaped me. It shapes the way I look at relationships and I think that's where a lot of my opinions come from is like witnessing trauma and experiencing trauma like that. I guess like let's leave off like there's been no updates on this lady. This post is 7 months old. There was never an official update after. There's only comments on the account and no post afterwards. Wow. So Hope she's okay. Hope she's okay. Um I would assume that it was handled very well. It sounds like she's got a great support system and I think it'll be okay for her. Yeah. Yeah, I would Oh, sorry, go on. No, I was just going to say cuz if if there was some other crazy [ __ ] that went down, you'd think it would end up back on here. really surprised she did not update because of the fact she was very responsive in the comments. But maybe like it is also hard like once you get a lawyer involved, they don't want you speaking out. True. lot of people on Reddit don't update because of the seriousness of you know, everything that's going on. Yeah. Yeah, I mean I would cuz my thought is that either the husband is going to help his wife get some help or she'll help herself. I mean it means needs to obviously happen from her. And if she doesn't, the husband probably has no choice than to leave her. And then if he leaves her, then is this woman really still going to be attached to her like ex-stepdaughter's baby? going to start stalking her? Yeah, then it gets really nasty. I mean that would be really scary, but my I feel like the fixation is almost because they are like so intertwined. Yeah. But who knows? Okay, so if you're listening to the podcast you will miss my dad's hello, but tune in on YouTube to see his his cute Wawa shirt. Also that pizza that your dad is making smells so good. Yeah, wait. Do you have any extra pizza? Hello? Dad. Yeah. Come say hi. Come say hi. Look how he only responds to whistles. Come say hi. Huh? Come say hi. Come say hi. Yeah. Oh my god, what are you wearing? Yeah, this is perfect. Here. This is perfect. hi. Remember when you guys played that pong game on your computer from two different back. There you are. You got to duck a little bit so they can see your outfit. Oh, I'm supposed to duck? Yeah, you got to duck. Down. There you go. Now you're in the view. Show me your avocado again. Avocado? Beautiful. And the shorts, love. Oh my gosh, he's literally wearing a gas station like shirt. Wawa? It's a gas station. Where did he get that? I know, I feel like those are just how the East They're in like Florida I think too. My Uncle Jimmy is a big fan of Wawa. I'd say Florida's East. Yeah. It yeah, it's East of where we are. But like I don't know. Florida's in its own little boat. They're so wild. Uh so up next there's two kidnapping stories. Jeez. Wow. I'm telling you you guys kidnapping babies is really common apparently. That's terrifying. Up first, the time my mom kidnapped our newborn is the title. To preface this the incident happened exactly 1 year ago today. We are no contact with my parents and will be for the foreseeable future unless my mom gets therapy. My doting wife and I are in therapy, but not so much because of the issues we have in our marriage, but because we both have shitty families and neither of us until meeting our therapist had strong spines. We are very low contact with wife's mother. She's more BEC than anything, but she also has some drug issues she's dealing with namely an addiction to painkillers. What is BEC? There's a lot of terms on just no mother-in-law and here's where my Reddit expertise goes down. Um let's Google it. Someone literally posted on just no mother-in-law and they go, what do all the acronyms mean?" Question, exclamation, question, exclamation, just like down a line. Because I love like a lot of the subreddits when they they abbreviate things like MIL, MIL, MIL, like mother-in-law, obviously abbreviated. Great. But just no mother-in-law is like notorious for like creating these new [ __ ] It's like the little text things. It's so annoying. So, someone literally the top comment on this post, "I've stopped coming here often because of all the damn acronyms. I hate acronyms. Mother-in-law is fine. I don't follow the stories that have a lot of acronyms." So funny. It also probably takes more effort to think through what acronym it would be rather than just type it. So apparently BEC is like throughout this entire thread, and apparently it stands for [ __ ] eating crackers. I was going to guess that. Um basically, a BEC moment or action is when the person you're talking about has gone so fed up that every little thing they do is annoying, deservedly or not. Okay. So they're just like Mhm. They're on your nerve. Got it. Essentially. Okay, let's go back a year and a few days. Wife is due any second with our first child. My mom up to this point has been a [ __ ] eating crackers, mostly little annoying things. However, she has also been patronizing of wife in the 6 years we were together, 2 years married. I've always shut that [ __ ] down. But all that, I should have gone low contact or no contact before this. So, the plan was to have both sets of parents to the hospital after the baby arrived and wife and I had time to bond. Her parents accepted that. My dad, who is an enabler, was okay with that, but my mom was not. She demanded she be at the hospital. We told her no. She had to wait. Finally, she said okay after she saw we wouldn't put our feet down. So, the baby was born. It's a boy. We hadn't found out, so it was a big surprise. Anyway, both sets of parents come, everything's good. Finally, wife is tired, so I walk my parents out. Hers had gone home. My dad went out to get the car. I waited by the front door with mom. She turns to me and says that my dad and her are filing for custody of our baby. She claims my wife is on drugs like her mom. A lie. Wife doesn't even drink. And that she saw how wife was around the baby, and she fears for his safety. I'm stunned. My dad pulls up and she gets in and leaves. I go back upstairs and my wife sees my face. I really don't want to tell her, but I'm not going to lie to her. She's upset as I am. So I text my mom that she's not to contact us. I then block her number. My younger sister's blowing my phone up and I know it's my mom. I get along great with my little sister as does wife, but she was a minor at the time and lived with my folks. We go home the next day. Wife had tearing and therefore needs meds. She refuses pain meds because of family history, but she says she will take Advil. So I go get some things at CVS. Wife and baby are sleeping, him in his cot, in line getting us dinner when wife calls hysterical. She woke up and no baby. Oh my god. I run home and we are both a mess at this time. Then my neighbor comes over and she says, "What's going on?" She sees me running like my feet are on fire, so I tell her. She tells me, "Wait, so your parents weren't supposed to take the baby?" Yep, my mom came and kidnapped my baby. Wow. I call the sheriff's office. My best friend is a deputy there. As soon as I tell him and his partner what happened, they had to get our baby. Turns out my dad wasn't involved in the actual kidnapping, although I'm sure he knew about it. My mom knew at the time where we kept a spare key and let herself in. Both her and her FM were arrested because there wasn't a chance in hell we weren't pressing charges. The baby was returned to us and according to my friend, they had a nursery waiting. Holy [ __ ] [ __ ] How did the [ __ ] What's wrong with the dad? He's an enabler. But what a psychopath. I don't care if you're an enabler, like that's scary to me because this other woman, she probably has some like severe mental health issues. This dad seems like he's just like going along with the ride. just as bad as doing it. Yeah, it is. I think enabling in some cases is just as bad as actually doing it. Well, yeah. I think it's literally if not even worse cuz like well, I'm I'm pretending that the dad is a little bit more level and the mom is just like having some serious issues. So like if that's the case, then like how can you in your right [ __ ] mind watch somebody kidnap someone else's baby? And have a nursery ready. A nursery. Oh my god. That's where the thing, the dad obviously knew the plan. Right. It was She's rearranging a guest bedroom or whatever, an office for a [ __ ] new baby. But how was that ever going to work? Oh, well, actually she could have said like, "Oh, I just want to make sure the baby has a comfortable place to like stay." the baby. Yeah, and then he might have been like, "Oh, my wife's being crazy." But because she said she what the big Was that right after she gave birth to the baby? Yeah. That is so crazy. I can't even imagine like being like after having birth, like having some psychopath like say this [ __ ] to me. Right, but you have to be nuts to think that that's actually going to work. You're not going to end up with the kid. Yeah. What's the point? Unhinged. She's unhinged. And that's the thing, like you her being like, "Oh, I saw how she was with the baby. I'm scared for his safety." She just pushed that thing out. How can you say that? Yeah. That that little baby is probably just like up in court. What do you mean? Like all the doctors are around. Like she couldn't even abuse that baby if she desperately wanted to. No. You know what I mean? Like She's like and also, who knows how long her goddamn labor was? Like she was potentially pushing, exhausted, in labor forever. Like she's probably so tired and just wants to bond with her child and then sleep and then have her mother-in-law come in and be like, "Yeah, well, you can go [ __ ] yourself. I'm going to take your baby." And you're just trying to like recover. Recuperate. You're just trying to take a little Advil and relax. Wait, do we have the ages of everyone? No ages in this post. Oh my god. His username though, it is um not today, Satan. I love that. It is another horror film exorcism. I don't know. Justin, these ones might [ __ ] you up more than Lauren. Oh, no, it doesn't like I'm not afraid all that, but I'm just like, [ __ ] Can you imagine? Yeah, it's wild. Cuz again, on the like you have to now you will not have these people in your life. No, if my mom tried to do this to me, I would kick her ass. I'm picturing that. It's very interesting. I just can't imagine. I can't imagine any parent in my life doing that. I don't know. I mean, what if someone was normal forever and then it just happened to you? Yeah, well, like the one stepmom, they had a good relationship until they got pregnant. It's like Uh, so he does go on to say, "My mom was sentenced, but because of her standing in the community, she was only given a slap on the wrist. However, the negative attention she got after that event spurred her and my dad to move." Good. Thankfully, my sister Thankfully, my sister turned 18 before then and she stayed with us a few months before going a few states away to school. For a long time, both her and my dad were radio silent. However, my mom has tried to reach out in the last few months. Thankful Thankfully, we've learned from this. We have cameras, a security system, and no spare key outside. Our neighbor, who is now a great friend, has our spare key. We are 3 months along with our second child. I'm hoping my mom doesn't find out. Season 2, neighbor steals baby. Oh my god. I knew like I Can you imagine? I know you're you're just key. I know that you're just you just had a kid. You're trying to get, you know, and that takes up crazy amounts of time and is very stressful in itself. But if I were this couple, I would also move. That's what I was thinking, too. I'm surprised they stayed. I wouldn't I I don't know. I would just be out. Yeah, so this guy, neighbor has the key. He did move. Actually, now that you mention that. Really trust the neighbors. And he moved to a gated community that has security guard and has been made aware of the mom, so no worries there. Wow. She's going to jump the bushes. Yeah. What's interesting though is the story I was between on this one. The title is mother-in-law basically kidnapped my baby. And it's very, very, very similar. We had our daughter about 4 weeks ago. She's been over at least 3 days every week since we've had her. She's always telling me what I'm doing wrong and how she'd do things differently. Baby is up every 2 hours and she insists she'd sleep through the night if she could stay at grandma's. Oh, yeah. So what she did is they put the baby down to sleep. The two of them went to bed and they woke up, you know, 4 hours later and they were like, "The baby hasn't woken up yet. What like what is going on? The baby hasn't woken up. Did she die from SIDS? Because that's every you know, I feel like that's at least it would be my fear, but I feel like as a new mom, first time mom, it's a big part of like your fears is like SIDS. And so they go and check on the baby and it's gone. See, and these are Turns out turns out the mother-in-law stole the key, came in and took the baby. Yeah, and these are the people you're trying to rely on to help you in these times of very much need where you just need an extra hour sleep or you need a little help here. Can you watch the baby? Just help us out a little bit. And then this [ __ ] happens. Mhm. Do you know what makes me mad about stuff like this? Is that And this could go for a lot of different situations, but this person was a mother once. Yeah. And And I'm just like don't you put yourself in the shoes of when you were a brand new mother if your mother-in-law or if your mother did this. Like Like because you were a mother, because you know how that feels, how do you think this is okay? I think they disassociate from their time out of a mother and it's almost like there could be I mean there's so many reasons it could be like they're better than I feel like. I feel like they feel entitled to this child. I think maybe there's some mental health things where I want a do over. I want this to be my baby. I see this as my baby. I'm this is just me and I'm right. You're doing it wrong. I mean kind of like Justin said, like how Maybe you have all these crazy thoughts, but how do you think you're going to get away with that? Right, it's never going to happen. Unhinged. There's more kidnapping stories I found. I'll post the links on the YouTube description if you guys want to read them anyways. But I think I think we're good on the the kidnappy kid vibes. Mhm. Yeah. Right? Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Um Give us some more diversity. Yeah. It sounds like all these people got it figured out. Uh luckily, the update on the one where the mom stole the key and took the kid while they were sleeping. Um they got it all sorted. I'll post that update. So, not actual kidnapping, but this one's still a little dicey, okay? Am I the [ __ ] for refusing to attend my brother's wedding after my sister-in-law left my 2-month-old on a park bench? Me and my sister-in-law have always been close. Her and my brother met when they were 15. I was 12 and I'm now 21. She was always really nice to me and we bonded over the fact that my parents don't like either of us. A few weeks ago, I got called into work and my sister-in-law said that I shouldn't waste money on a babysitter when I could just let them take her for a bit. My husband was also at work. I guess at some point she decided to take her and her dog for a walk. She says they were walking through the park and the leash slipped out of her hand. Without thinking, she put my daughter on a nearby bench. She was in a little carrier and she ran after the dog. She didn't even catch the dog and it wasn't until 2 hours later that she even realized that she was missing. Okay. When I came to pick up my daughter, she broke down and told me everything. I was livid, but I was so thankful no one kidnapped her. My husband was so mad, he stormed down to their house just to yell at her. Mhm. She recently messaged me the details about her wedding. I told her I would not be attending. She called me sobbing saying that I am a petty [ __ ] and she wishes someone would have kidnapped my daughter. Okay. That's what she said. the decision. Yeah, I was going to say like at first I could see just being like forgive me, but making that comment like no, [ __ ] you. That is [ __ ] up. I hung up on her and she apologized and said she needs me there. My friends and family have called me saying I'm petty and that she was stressed and it was an accident. Am I the [ __ ] That's not an accident. That's not an accident at all. love love dogs, love animals. Baby dog, 2-month-old baby. Dog. Yeah, but even if you set the baby down and 10 seconds later you're like, oh, okay, that was dumb. she left the baby there for 2 hours? 2 hours. Yeah. And she didn't find the dog. Didn't even get the dog. No, got so distracted by looking for the dog. Probably. Cuz how My god. So, do you want to know where this gets worse? Does it? Short question. Like can it get worse? It gets worse. It gets worse. Let me find the comment from OP. So, apparently like OP's again very This one is very very responsive. She goes, "Kidnapping is quite common in my area, but the park is sort of hidden, but still like it's quite common in her area. Like that is a terrifying thought. Oh my god, that's so terrifying. Yeah, playing with fire. So, someone comments and they go, "Yikes. What was she doing for 2 hours before she realized she left her on a bench looking for the dog the whole time? Question mark. Not the asshole." And she goes, "Yeah. She said for about 40 minutes she was looking for the dog. Then she told me she went shopping for clothes for my daughter. How can you buy clothes for someone and not realize they were supposed to be with you for the last 2 hours?" What happened to her? That's insane. not even just spacing out or forgetting. That's just That I don't even know what that is. Yeah, that is crazy. It's like memory loss. Seriously. I but the thing that the craziest thought to me about that is is if I was the parent, I think about the fact that it's so frustrating that I like when I misplace my keys, I can't just like call my keys. I don't have like a tracker on them. I can't figure out where they are. If someone kidnapped your tiny little baby, you can't just like ping it. Oh no, you'd be [ __ ] what the [ __ ] That is the most terrifying thing. The I can't I can't imagine. And like when you trust somebody to watch your baby to leave them in a park by themselves for 2 2 hours. What if it was super sunny outside? That's 2 hours. was hot and this baby literally [ __ ] died from the [ __ ] elements. So scary. Here I go swearing. I was doing so well. No, I [ __ ] swear. But that's I thought But that's the thing. Bo say that he liked how much I swore? Yeah. Yeah. So, that's the thing. It's like What if this little baby 2 hours for a 2-month-old? 2-month-old 2-month-old babies are They're so little. They're so easily affected by heat and dehydration. So, I'm curious if she realized and then went back to the park and found her there I was wondering. or if there's actually other people around cuz if you I mean if any of us were walking around and you see just a random baby on a park bench, Yeah. all of us would run up and be like, all right, what is going on here? Go to the police station. Yeah, you figure it out. So, still But how do you even figure that out? You don't have like a name tag on a baby. You know what I mean? Well, still, but at least you know so crazy. The idea that like you lose a baby, it's like how do people identify? It's just at least you know that you have control of the situation in the sense that something terrible isn't going to happen. But this is just crazy. Either the park is not very popular, but still even you're just tempting disaster. Yeah. Literally. Well, okay, the one thing that I will say is that So, she went back and got the baby before they came home, right? Yeah. So, so she at least she admitted to it. And she did she technically like didn't have to say anything, but she she did come clean about it. I'm like, okay, well, at least she's not Yeah, so OP does go That's admirable. No one picked No one picked the baby up. No one sat with the baby. The baby was just sitting there for 2 hours. And so OP goes, "I'm sure that there were a few people in the 2 hours, but no one stopped to get her." That's crazy. If I saw an infant on a bench alone, I'd assume its mother was around the park somewhere, but I'd still keep an eye on it. I think it's very strange how no one stopped to. And so she like comments a bunch. And so, um she basically says luckily it wasn't too hot, but she's a little sunburned on her arms. We've already taken her to the doctor/hospital. They said we shouldn't worry too much. Um And a lot of people are just kind of like, "Is your sister-in-law jealous of you getting all of this attention because you had a baby?" it though. It doesn't sound like a jealousy thing. I don't know. I just Cuz if it was Why Like why would that be a jealousy thing? I don't Like I I mean she's getting married and you know, she her sister, future sister-in-law, you know, thinking not thinking from the sister-in-law that left the baby's perspective. It's like I'm getting married. I want the spotlight to be on me. So, you think she just wanted the attention of being like, "Look what I did wrong?" No, but I think she like I think when people are jealous and insecure of themselves, they self-sabotage or they try to hurt those individuals that they're jealous of. Um for example, I read a story today about this individual who was insecure about their friend, had felt threatened by this friend and during a test in school, she put laxatives in her drink and her sandwich at lunch to sabotage her friend from taking the test. And then if you go look at that person's profile, they also admit to crushing up sleeping pills and putting them in their friend's food. Wow. I think there's unhinged people that need mental health help. But but that's the intention. Like that like they had a result that they were looking for. Whereas this what result would she be looking for? wanted the baby to get kidnapped. Maybe she wanted to hurt her in a way. why would she just try again instead of telling them what she did? I mean she left that child there for 2 hours and went shopping. I know, but I'm just saying like why why didn't she like why would she tell? Oh, like why? actually acting it out again. Yeah. I don't know. So I'm like I like I have no words for this one. I have no idea. add up. Like nothing about it adds up. weird. fact that when she was confronted by I'm not going to come to your wedding. And she was like, yeah. I wish your baby would have been kidnapped. That is some crazy [ __ ] Instead of being like, you know what? I'm really sorry. I understand. I'm hurt. I want you there. But I understand. Like I say some things that I don't mean when I'm really hurt. But like to bring the baby in and say I wish your baby got kidnapped. That is not that is not okay. Yeah. That doesn't surprise me that much. I and I'm not I don't think leaving the baby there was malicious. I don't think that was for me at least I'm not seeing that as the intention. I think it's just some person who is either very forgetful or just just not all there to the point where you could forget that heavily. You're distracted by chasing a dog Yeah. that you make a dumb choice and then realize it later. Right, but even still you could be that far removed where you're just like Then don't just dumb and then Then don't commit to watching a 2-month-old baby. Yeah. Right. But but they also wouldn't be smart enough if they could make these dumb choices to make that decision on the front end. no. So yes, obviously going forward no one's going to trust her with the baby, but I don't know. I just don't think she left the baby there on purpose. I I I truly this one has me very baffled. Same. I don't want to like think she did it maliciously because how [ __ ] up is that? Yeah. Wouldn't that end up couldn't that end up being like some sort of crime? Yeah. I like I don't even know if it's I I think even now she could get charges pressed against her for neglect. Yeah, I was going to say even the the one that you had with Alejandra, the story where like the the grandma left the 2-year-old. there's reckless endangerment. Yeah. And but it was like neglect, too. Yeah. She just left the child to go do laundry. There's so many crazy laws that I I mean even lawyers don't know about. There's so many crazy laws and just specifics that you could probably press charges for. Which she does mention one of her comments. She gives like an update. She's like, I didn't think this post would really blow up. They always say that. I have agreed to go to the wedding if my brother can send if my brother chooses to follow through with the wedding. My sister and I are trying to convince him to just reconsider the wedding and take a second to actually think about what's happening. I'm seriously thinking about getting the police involved. Yeah. But so someone made a comment and this is why I'm like I don't think there's any health issues involved. Um but someone made a comment. They're like, not the [ __ ] but have you talked to your brother about this? Was he not concerned that his fiance left his baby niece alone for 2 hours? Right. Also consider the fact that this isn't just your sister-in-law's wedding. It's your brother's wedding. So maybe if you want, you can just go in support of your brother, not your sister-in-law. If you don't feel comfortable with that, it's perfectly fine because you are entitled to how you feel. And she goes yeah, I talked to my brother and he excused it by saying, quote, she's got diagnosed high blood pressure. Me and my older sister are trying to talk to him about reconsidering the engagement. This is so far just so unrelated and it yes, it is a tangent, but I feel like we as people every day make just stupid mistakes that are pretty forgetful. Like one time I went to Chipotle and left the keys in my car with my car running the whole time I was in there just not thinking. Mhm. And I came out and I was like, what how did this happen? Like how did I make this mistake? And you almost just you don't even understand what happened. And I wasn't drunk. I wasn't anything. Well. And so you just think like and yes, a baby is a whole new ballgame. But but I think you can still make weird forgetful mistakes, especially if you're it it it also isn't her kid, too. So I can I don't know. I don't know what I'm trying to say, but So I have the perfect thing. I mean in the United States alone the stats of babies dying in cars every year is horrendous. Mhm. I mean parents and one of the most like tragic pictures I've ever seen on the internet was a parent who left his child in the car when he went into work, forgot to drop the baby off at daycare and the baby died in the car. So sad. And it's just like forgetfulness. He typically didn't bring the baby to daycare. His wife did. So he forgot to drop the baby off. He deviated from his routine. It wasn't it you know, he was so locked in his patterns and his behavior. And it's like you know, for the sister-in-law, she probably doesn't watch the baby a lot. The baby's only 2 months old. So you know, for her her pattern and her routine is going to the park. [ __ ] her dog ran away. I got to think about the dog. And then it's like out of sight, out of mind. That's my thought. I think the confusing thing cuz all of this I could see it happening. The confusing thing to me is like how do you just lose a dog and you're like, hm I'm just going to go shopping now? Yeah, did she find the dog? Like you said she didn't even find the dog. So like I would think that if I lost my dog after 40 minutes of looking for my dog, I would be like Sick. to start making posters. I'm going to go to like the police or like the the vet or what what whatever I can do to just like be like, hey, this is a picture of my dog. Please everyone look for this. Like the fact that like it was like 40 minutes and you're like well, time to go shopping. That's where I'm kind of confused. True. She just seems off. Yeah. She's off. Yeah. Um I looked through the comments. There's no mention of her even finding the dog. The only comment related to the dog was yeah, she said she was looking for the dog for about 40 minutes. So no idea. Um sounds like this one is still really developing. Damn. Very interesting. Yeah, there's no official update yet. And the last comment was basically we're trying to get my brother to reconsider. I would say that that's kind of invasive and I don't you know, like if she genuinely it was such an accident and she's so like remorseful, then like for you to be like trying to break up her marriage. Um but the I'm sure there's other stuff going on though. I'm sure this isn't the only thing. I'm sure this is like And and the fact and it's a huge thing, too. So it's not just a small thing. But like if it was genuinely such an accident, you know, um but the fact that she said I wish your baby would have gotten kidnapped. That's the one that sticks with me. I'm like, how could you say that to somebody? True. [ __ ] Yeah. Absol- that's and mhm people lash out when they're embarrassed or hurt. I get Right. That's you know, we all do it, but it's so easy to just rectify a situation or like the last thing you want to do is stir the boat more. Yeah. The easiest way that you could rectify this is like, you know what? I'm really sorry I did this. I I completely understand. Sorry, what? Is stir the boat a phrase? Oh, it's stir the pot. Okay, sorry. Go on. But yeah, like you just got to smooth things over. It's like, I know I [ __ ] up. I'm so sorry. I respect your decision. Yeah. to give you your space. Yeah. Versus I wish your daughter would have been kidnapped. Yeah, that's [ __ ] up. Like if she would have just been like, you're a petty [ __ ] Fine, whatever. She's mad. She's hurt. She feels embarrassed. She crossed the line with that other comment. rest of the family on the wife's side? My friends and family have called me saying I'm petty and that she was stressed. Why is the rest of the family on her side? know what story she's telling probably. Yeah. The sister-in-law? Or all of them. She We don't know if she what she's telling us is completely everything. Yeah. Yeah, maybe they were all in on it. Just wild. Conspiracies. Ugh, let's not even go about that. Well, you guys love that. What was that sound effect? I was trying to go. I was trying to copy your go and then it it it was like even more powerful than I thought. It sounded like an animated cartoon. It was out of control. It literally sounds like it's outside of the headphones. Like I feel like it's all around us. Okay, well. I'm going to take a little bathroom break. Okay, same. Uh I guess same. So up next am I the [ __ ] for not wanting to give my late husband's sperm to his parents? I'm sorry. I really tried to think of a less silly title. When my husband was diagnosed with cancer, we froze his sperm so we could have children via insemination even after chemotherapy. His parents were very involved in his treatment and were aware that we were doing this. His treatment was unfortunately unsuccessful and he passed away on July 19th. His parents asked me if I considering being inseminated with his sperm, and I said no. Then they asked me if I could transfer ownership of the sperm to them so they could use it to have grandchildren. I assume they're planning on hiring a surrogate for this, but I'll admit I was so surprised and confused I didn't actually ask. My gut reaction was that this is wrong and exploitative and not what my husband would have wanted. We froze his sperm because we wanted to raise a family together, and freezing his sperm seemed like a better option than adopting or using a sperm donor. Not because he wanted to give his parents grandkids or just put his DNA out into the world for the sake of it. I'm so confused about who they expect to raise this child or children as they're both in their 60s. The surrogate? Question mark? One of their nieces or nephews? My husband has no siblings, and I certainly wouldn't feel comfortable doing it. It feels like they just want their bloodline to continue without any thought to the practicality of it. Mhm. That's probably what it is. I'm actually kind of torn on this one. I look at this and I really to put this in a perspective, he died July 19th. This post was 6 days ago, so it was technically written on either July 31st or August 1st. Wow. Oh. There's only a There's only been about 2 weeks since this man's death. But I think that's part of it. I think his parents are mourning. So here's the thing. So if you look at the stages of grief, anger, bargaining, guilt, you know, all the stages of grief. I think they're at the bargaining stage. I think they're at like okay, he's gone, but what can I do to have a piece of him? Yeah. Yeah. What Like what can I do to bring him back? I think that's where they're at. I do too. I But the thing is is that like if the child has a great home to be raised in, I don't think there's anything wrong with that. I mean, the other thing she's going to do is just throw the sperm away. So it's like But the the wrong part is that he never agreed to it. So it's like if that would have been a conversation before he passed, there would be no no question. But because it's like without his consent, it feels really weird. wrong. Wrong. Well, and the wife the wife is going to have the sense of she's going to have more of the sense of what he would have wanted than the parents will. I agree with that. If she's like honestly, if she's uncomfortable with it, that's her choice. But I think she would at the end of the day it almost feels like she should be the one making this choice. But then you also have to take into consideration that she's also mourning. So maybe the idea too of him having a child out there that's not with her is like horrible, you know? Well, and I I don't see this being a like logical thing. I think they were together, they were married. In the reality that was their reality before he passed, they were together. They either planned on having kids together or not at all. I I do I do think I and this is a really really hot take that people have like I've seen on the internet and has like kind of been implanted in me now. It's like you shouldn't have a kid because you're lonely. You shouldn't have a kid because you want a mini me. Yeah. Like there's hot takes that people put out there where it's like these are reasons why you shouldn't have a kid. And it's l
