Phelps, of course, is the most decorated Olympian [music] of all time. If he was a country, he would have the third most swimming medals ever. Where did this obsession of winning come from? >> Hating to lose. I hate to lose more than I enjoy winning. How did this come up? >> One thing my coach took out of my vocabulary was the word can't, because it's going to be exponentially harder since you told yourself you can't. 28 medals. The second youngest male swimmer to qualify for a US Olympic team. And what goes on in your head before even the race has started? >> When I'm on the block, nothing. I'm like a dog trying to get out of the cage. Like I'm just Did you use any psychological warfare sort of tactic against your competitors? I'm taking care of me and I'm focusing [music] on what I need in that moment. I don't give a [ __ ] about my competitors in that moment. When I'm on the pool deck, it is a full-blown war. I want to absolutely destroy them. Was there anyone you secretly feared as a competitor? No, I beat everybody. I don't care who you are. I'm the shark in the water. If I smell that smallest ounce of blood, I'm going to destroy you. Watch me take it. Tell me about that phase, which is your 2008 Beijing, where you won eight gold medals. History in Beijing for Michael Phelps. Eight for eight. For those two years, I felt unbeatable in the pool. I literally felt like there wasn't a single soul on the planet that could touch me, that could beat me. In an interview which you gave, the interviewer asked you that you have won 28 Olympic medals in your life, and you said no, there's 23 that count. >> I medaled in 28 out of 30 of my races at the Olympic Games. 23 are only the ones that we need to talk to. Silver is losing? You're second, you lost. Third place, you lost. I don't talk about the other five. It's going to be gold. It's going to be a new world record. Once I did make that Olympic team, when I got fifth, I was pissed because I didn't want a piece of paper that somebody said congratulations, you came and competed. I came because I wanted something around my neck. I'm there to hear my national anthem play. That's it. Tell me the first time you won the gold medal. >> I couldn't get caught up in that one moment, even though it was special. So, that gold medal is like, all right, finished, what's next? Walk me through four, five techniques or certain things that you would do in that five, six years of training, where you were truly preparing to win gold. We'd start in the morning with a training session. Eat plates of food for breakfast, go home, take a nap, wake up, eat something else, go back to the pool, go home, eat, sleep, wake up, and do it all over again. Every day for six years? Six-year stretch where I didn't miss a single day. A lot of people say why, and I say why not. There wasn't a single person on this planet during those 20 years, pretty much in my career, that was more prepared than me. That's why I got the results that I got. >> [music] >> Five Olympic Games, 28 medals, 23 of them gold, 39 world records. If this man was a country, he would have been the third highest country with the medals. There is no other human being, there is no other athlete in the world who has achieved this much in a single sport as much as this person has achieved. He's a beast, he's a maniac. He's achieved numbers that no human has ever touched. He's achieved numbers that might never be touched again. And for six years straight, this man trained every single day. No Sundays off, no holidays, no Christmas, nothing. No excuses. How did he build this beast wild mindset? While the world was moving, he was training like a maniac. He was obsessed trying to be better, faster just by 1 second, just by half a second. And today, on figuring out, we're sitting with this beast, the absolute goat. It's an honor to do the podcast with Michael Phelps, the greatest athlete, the greatest Olympian, the athlete which has never existed before and the world has never seen. And in this conversation, we're going to figure out what it actually takes to absolutely become the champion and to build a mindset of a beast so that you kill every time you enter the arena. This podcast is like the masterclass of an athlete mindset. If you want to win this year, watch this till the end. >> [music] >> You know, actually, before I even I even start this, how about for 0.01% people who have no clue who you are, why don't you tell us, Michael, who are you? I was a swimmer at one point in my life. Um I won a couple gold medals, broke a couple world records. Um competed in five Olympic Games. Um I'm a father of four now. I have four boys, nine, seven, six, and almost two. Um Yeah, and I think a lot of what I try to do now is >> [snorts] >> is really promote healthy and active lifestyles, whether that's water safety with my foundation, um or it's really trying to open up the world to the importance of mental health. Um you know, I think for me going through what I went through the tail end of my career, um really helped me explore more about who I am. Um but also, I think with me showing my vulnerability and opening up and talking about the struggles that I go through, I've been able to hear others or see others that have become vulnerable around me and shared what they go through. Um and for me, I think the second part is way bigger than the first part. Um because the second part we're dealing with life and death. The first part was awesome. But like, don't get me wrong, it was incredible hearing my my national anthem play and you know, winning a bunch of gold medals, but you know, the fact that life and death is also in play with so many people, I think I I just heard a stat. My wife just sent it to me yesterday. It was This is kind [snorts] of crazy to me. Suicide's the second leading cause of death for people 10 to 34. So, for me, that's why I say the second part is so much it's so much bigger. Um you know, just being again, being able to save a life uh is a thousand times better than winning an Olympic gold medal. Um and for me, just being able to have the platform that I had, that I have, um to give me the chance to to speak what I'm passionate about is is really special. Let's try to understand both the phases of your life. Part one, part two. But before we go there, I want to understand something about you when you were a child, like from the beginning. Tell me, what do I need to understand about you when you were 10 years old? You [snorts] were unable to sit in a class. You saw your parents' uh relationship falling off. You were restless and not able to just cope up with everything which normal kids do. Yeah. What do I need to understand about that Michael? Um I mean, I I I I I I I I I and everything that came after. Yeah, I mean, [snorts] I think for me, uh you know, going back even before 10, you know, when I was 7 years old, I was you know, nonstop kind of bouncing off the wall. You know, I was always around the pool. My my two older sisters swam, so I was around the pool all the time, so water safety was uh something that was a big priority for my mother and and you know, once I was in the water and I was safe there, you know, I was just kind of playing around the pool all the time. So, that's when I got into the water, and then the water was kind of a release for me. Um you know, being able to kind of swim as hard as you want to go faster with, you know, anger, if you might have it, was something that I enjoyed. Um yeah, it wasn't great dealing with anger as a 7, 8, 9, 10-year-old kid. Um but for me, it was an outlet. Uh and it was something that that, you know, I ended up falling in love with, and uh yeah, I mean, I I remember in uh middle school, >> [clears throat] >> I was told uh by my teachers that I would never by excuse me, by a teacher, uh that I would never amount to anything. Um and and I still remember her name and and uh I still remember what she looks like. I still remember where I was sitting in the class. Um and and I think at that point for me, I used it as motivation. Um you know, the the fact that a teacher, number one, would say they're doubting a student and not knowing how to deal with them, I think is saddening, it's upsetting. Um but for me, I was like, watch this, I'm going to prove you. Uh and I think at the time, that was pretty much when I had stopped taking um Ritalin, which was for my ADHD. Uh, so my ADHD I literally was like I was all over the place. I was leaning back in the chair on the back legs, leaving dents on the in on the floor in the classroom, always getting sent to the principal's office, and honestly I just had a really hard time sitting still. Um, and at that point my mom was, you know, I was playing baseball, I was playing lacrosse, I was playing soccer, and I was swimming. I was playing all these different sports just to try to get the energy out of me. My mom was just like I don't know what to do with him. Um, and it's crazy fast forward now to where I'm 40 and I have four kids. It's the same way. >> [laughter] >> Their kids are non-stop. Um, but I think, you know, going back to that point I I think swimming really gave me something to focus on. Um, yeah, I was that well, I still am that kind of ADD, kind of all over the place, jittery, like kind of always moving around. Like that's just who I am. That's my personality. So, you know, I think over time I naturally took something that somebody labeled me with having or being a less than of a kid, I took that into into almost really making it a superpower. Um, because it gave me the ability to focus on things that I was really passionate about. Um, See, your teacher said she must have noticed and the rest of the world just noticed how you were as a kid who restless not able to sit anywhere. What do you think that teacher didn't get or the world didn't get about that kid who was not able to sit properly? Because uh, you definitely had something in you and you >> I just thought she didn't know how to, whether it's a lack of better way of saying it, like I don't I don't think she wanted to deal with me or knew how to deal with me or knew how to handle me or knew or knew how to taught me, teach me, right? Like she didn't she just didn't know. Um, and you know, like for me like my mother has been in education for 50 years. You know, like that's her passion. Her passion is being in the classroom to try to make an impact for a student. To try to help them take whatever they're learning in that year, that classroom, and catapult it to help them into the rest of their life, to help transform them into what they want to be. And all of those steps need to happen, but when a teacher, you know, instantly shuts down on a kid, it just doesn't look good for the teacher. Um, but I mean, >> [clears throat] >> I think I got like a C in her class, so like let's be honest. Yeah. I was kind of like just get me out of here. You know, like that was my least least favorite class that I went to every single day and I sat there. >> class was it? English. I hated English. You [snorts] know, and and maybe it was how she was teaching it to me. Because I had teachers that were great. You know, like I had teachers throughout my my uh, elementary, middle, and high school where they were awesome and they helped me understand when I had problems learning what everybody else was learning faster than what I was learning. Or if I was learning things faster than everybody else, then she gave me he or she gave me stuff to help me stay focused, right? Like that I I I think it's just uh, everybody has a different mind and everybody is able to handle or control as much as they can. Um, and she just didn't know what to do. Uh, it was sad and I'm sure there still are teachers out there in the world that are like that and it is it is unfortunate and it is sad. Um, but to the kids out there who do have an experience like that, know that there are other outcomes that can happen in life. Um, I mean, people doubted me in the swimming pool, too. And honestly, like for me again, it was just it was a form of motivation. That was it. You know, like if somebody wants to doubt me, like I've been on this kick lately where I've just been firing off quotes on Instagram. Just like on my story, just ripping quotes off that just like fit me in the morning. And I'm like I'm I'm I'm a big quotes person and and you know, like throughout my career my coach would always put quotes on the top of the workout. Um, motivating quotes or just quotes that people need to hear that for me that I need to hear. Um, you know, for for whatever you're going through life, so yeah, I can >> Which one's your favorite quote now? I mean, my my favorite quote is actions speak louder than words. You know, like that's that's one of my all-time favorite hands-down quotes because it it's true. You know, like you can say whatever you want, but if your actions don't back up those words, then all it is is just a bold-faced lie, you know? So, you know, for me like throughout my career like I I wanted to, you know, break this world record, win this gold medal, whatever it was, and I knew that there had to be a process on how to get there, right? Like I can't just say it and snap my fingers. There had to be, you know, every single day little baby things that were stacked on top of each other and little baby steps that were heading towards that goal. And if I was taking steps backwards, then I'm just cheating myself. What what do you think you said water became your escape and you were just always in the pool taking out your anger and everything. Like it it became your coping mechanism in some sort and you were always in the pool, right? >> Mhm. What do you think what did water give you emotionally which nothing else could? Um, I [clears throat] mean, my kids call me Aquaman now, so I guess >> [laughter] >> it's kind of the same Um, you know, I I don't know. I think thinking back to it and, you know, kind of being able to dive through my career a little bit inside the pool. Um, I was super sensitive to every little part of the water in my body, right? So, like when I would swim, I'm feeling the water in the palm of my hands. Like that's where I'm feeling all the pressure. So, if my shoulder my my arm or my body is not a certain way, then I'm not able to feel that. So, it's all trial and error and trying to get in the right position. Um, and naturally I think, you know, for me just being submerged in water, I just felt at home. Um, I don't know, for lack of better terms. Like, you know, even that even like now, if I go into a big depression state or I'm just in a grouchy mood for a couple of days and workout hasn't helped and, you know, my normal routine hasn't helped, whether it's the cold tub or the sauna, you know, I'll I'll just get, you know, my wife will just kick me out of the house and say go go jump in the swimming pool. Um, because it's it's kind of like the only place where I I don't have anybody talking to me. I don't have to think about stroke. I don't have to think about what I'm having for dinner or what I'm making for dinner or what I'm doing tomorrow or this or that. I'm just there in the moment. Right? Like I can just be. And I can swim for 500, which is, I mean, minimal compared to what I used to swim. >> [laughter] >> Um, or I could swim 2,000. It doesn't matter. Like just being able to be back in the water, being back into that environment I think is kind of one of my reset switches. Um, that kind of just levels me out. Do you think you were running away from something? Or you were you were swimming away from something or swimming towards something? I think I found swimming, yeah, as an outlet, but I think, you know, the reason why I found swimming is my two older sisters swam as well. So, you know, for me kind of seeing what they were doing and my middle sister Whitney was traveling all over the world and she was on world championship teams. I was like, "Wow, that seems pretty cool." Like she was trying to go to the Olympic Games and I was like, "Yeah, I want to go to the Olympic Games." Like, "Hell yeah, like who doesn't want to go to the Olympic Games?" Um, and I I just kind of followed and and, you know, naturally as a kid if you learn that you get good or you start getting faster, you kind of think how fast can I get? And that's kind of what I did. You know, like from the start until the end of my career I was kind of like, "All right, how how much faster can I get? Can I drop a second? Can I drop a half a second? Can I drop two tenths? Like what is the maximum potential that I have inside of me and how can I challenge myself in different ways?" Um, swimming for me like again, like I would scream underwater. You can't hear me. Like I would call my coach every single [ __ ] name on the planet. Like sorry for profanity, but like like I literally would. Like because there were times where I was so frustrated and so angry and there was nothing else I could do, whether it was like I my body was in pain, I I mentally couldn't do it or I felt like I couldn't do it. Um, I would just scream and then naturally I would still get through it and it would go well and blah blah blah blah blah, but it's like in that moment like for me screaming was one of those things that would just let everything out. Um, and it's something that like, you know, we've taught our kids. Um, again, we have four boys and and the emotions get high. So, you know, we taught them this thing called a lion breath where you take a deep breath and you roar like a lion. And you scream as loud as you can. And again, with I mean, the younger one doesn't scream that much, but like the three older ones it's a lot of noise, but it's again, like we find once they're able to do that, their shoulders drop a little bit and they're able to have that conversation of what big feelings emotions they're going through inside instead of carrying them along through life. Can you show me what what is it? Like what's the lion breath? Uh, you don't want me to scream in here. It's okay. You can just show it like a little bit >> it's just like >> one version of it. >> [sighs] >> Ah, and you obviously you can scream as loud as you want, but it's it's literally just take a deep big, big, big deep breath in and just scream as loud as you possibly can. And naturally like naturally when when you do that, your shoulders do drop a little bit, right? You are able to kind of come back to earth, right? Be your normal self. Like I always joke, there was uh the candy, the Snickers bars commercial. Um it's always they they they always show them here, but it's it's uh it's a commercial where it's like you take a bite of a Snickers and you just feel like you're normal self. Like I feel like that's what that's what it is. Like what Snickers is saying like when you have a sugar low, you eat some sugar and naturally you feel better. But here it's like if you're stressed or you're frustrated and you take that deep breath, you're able to be like huh, okay. So, why am I going through that? What feelings and emotions am I going through? And you're able just to get it all out. Like for me it's, you know, there are a bunch of different things that I do. Um I don't do lion's breath that often, but uh when I'm in the pool it's very easy to do it. Um but yeah, I mean there there's a checklist that I have for my own mental health. So, you would So, you used to scream inside the pool a lot. Or like underwater like >> Underwater, right? >> Like when I was going and taking like when I was doing my streamlines off the wall and I was kicking underwater, I would there were a lot of F bombs that were said. Yeah, that was one of my favorite words to scream underwater. And people could hear it. Honestly like when you're in a set, like person next to me would be like, "Did you just scream?" And you're like, "Mhm, [clears throat] I did. I did." And they're like, "All right, we have one more." And you're like, "Yep, we got one more repeat. Let's go." Um but it it's just it's kind of like in the moment like it it I feel like I needed I needed to do that just to get through. Um and everybody I think probably has something different, right? But that that was just me. It was screaming underwater. It's same thing like when I'm in the weight room now like I I was just traveling overseas and and I was lifting in I think it was Mumbai. And I was in the weight room and I was like grunting. And then like everybody in the gym like looked at me and I was like, "Shit." And I'm looking into a mirror and everybody's face is staring right at you. Um but it's just kind of something that I do. Um I mean I used to do it right when I get up onto the block. You know, right after I did my arm slap, it was something that I would always do, just clear my throat. So, is it you were screaming a lot because you were obsessed with trying to win? Or was it A lot of different things. It was probably yeah, I wanted to win. I wanted to push through whatever I was going through or I was emotionally just ready to snap and screaming was something that would help me. Where did this obsession of winning come from? Was it Hating to lose. But >> I hate to lose more than I enjoy winning. >> Even when you were like 9, 10, 11? How did this come up? I don't know. It was just something I always had. Like I always felt from from when I was a little kid like there was there was there was no second place. That wasn't an option. It's just something that I always I mean like I remember winning home run derby at 10 or 11 years old. Like I was the biggest kid playing lacrosse, playing long stick middie, um just slashing people with the stick. Um yeah, I mean winning winning was everything. Yeah. Do you think it has anything to do with not getting your father's approval when you were a kid? Um the absence of I don't think so. Uh because I I mean I I would say a lot of it probably came from him um because he was he was kind of more of the athlete from my parents' relationship. He was a baseball player, a football player, track and field stud. Um he I think he was the first person to get cut from uh the Washington Redskins back in the day uh when they were the Redskins. So, um winning or trying to be the best is something that that in sports was something that he was he was very good at. Like competition in sports that that was something that he excelled in. Um I would say my sister Whitney and I are uberly competitive, more competitive than my older sister Hillary. Um especially in sports. Um there's there's just Yeah, I mean for us again there was just there was no second place. Um you know, for me it it it ended up becoming preparation, right? Like preparation is everything. If you're not prepared, then you're going to get second or you're going to get third or you're going to get last, right? Because there's always somebody that is overly prepared or more prepared than you are, no matter what. So, for me I just became that person. There wasn't a planet. There there there there wasn't there wasn't a single person on this planet during those 20 years pretty much of my career. You know, I had a couple losses that I can name for through my Olympic career. But there wasn't another person on this planet that was more prepared than me. Not, period. There wasn't. That's why I got the results that I got. It's not rocket science. It's not. I put in the work, I got the results. That's it. Let's let's go to your preparation time and like when you first started with your coach. >> Yeah. And first when your coach spotted you in the same year he went to your mother and said that you're going to win an Olympics or you're going to be in the Olympics, right? What was that story? Tell me about it. My coach came to North Baltimore Aquatic Club where I was swimming where my sister swam. Long tradition of uh of excellence with that club in Baltimore. You know, from 1984 until 2016 there was at least one person on every single Olympic team. Wow. So, my coach came in '96 [snorts] or right before '96, maybe '95. Okay. Um and he was helping my sister's group a little bit. Uh my middle sister's group a little bit prepare for uh Olympic trials and the Olympic Games in '96. And then the group kind of split and he took over a different group. I think I'm thinking I'm explaining this right away. Um and then I remember seeing him while I was that kid playing at the pool. You know, I was only swimming like three days a week. Like I really wasn't training that much back then. And I would always play, play, play and I would see him go up and down the pool, walk, run, arms up in the air, screaming, whistling. And I was like like I remember being like, you know, like if it was me back then what I was thinking, I would be like there's no [ __ ] chance I'm swimming for that man. Like he is an absolute lunatic. Fast forward a year, I spent 20 years 20 plus years of my life with that man and he is my only coach. Um but it it it's kind of crazy because, you know, seeing it you know, I think at that age I was like, "Man, like truly like this guy's nuts." Um but what I learned it was just the passion that he has. And that he that that he had back then that he still has today. Um But did he come to you or you went to him? So, uh I was I was excelling in the group that I was in and and I needed to be in a higher group. And and I was 11 years old at this time and the kids that were in that group were like 14, 15, 18 years old. Like way older, way more mature. Um but I was faster than them. So, I I ended up swimming in that group and and I got to that group and and but before I got there my coach sat down with my parents one night and he's like, "Well, look like if if, you know, your son wants to make the Olympic team in four years, he can make the Olympic team." As an 11-year I I was 11 years old. He said that to you? He said that to me. And he's like, "But look, he's like you got to stop playing baseball, lacrosse, and soccer." But for me like looking back now like those playing those four different sports I think naturally gave me a better body awareness. Like the more I talk to the professional athletes from all sports, all walks of life now, that's the same thing they did. Playing multiple sports. Don't be super hyper focused on one sport. But at a certain time there's then going to be a decision that you have to make. It it's it's just naturally I feel like that's how it is in sports. If you really want to be the best at one sport, there's a you have to make a decision at some point. Um just because of the process of development, this, that, and the other. Um but back then, yeah, he he sat down and said that and I was like, "All right, kind of like fine. Like I'll stop playing these other sports. I'll focus on swimming. No problem." And I just remember back then I I I was I was the Energizer Bunny. Like he basically would wind me up and I would just go. Or he would say jump and I would say how high. Um because he gave me that vision of wanting to go to the Olympic Games. To then make the dream of winning an Olympic gold medal even bigger. Because you know, I just thought about going. And then I'm like, "Maybe I could win, right? Like that would be pretty cool." When you were 11 and he said that to you for the first time that you could go to Olympics in next four years. Did you believe it? Or did you act act like someone who believed it until it actually became true? Uh I believed it because he showed confidence in me. As an 11-year old >> Something that he saw of me in the pool gave him confidence that he could do that. He had already trained and worked with previous Olympic coaches, Olympic athletes, and he saw something. Um and honestly, I think back to the question you asked earlier, like you know, he then became a father figure in my life, right? Because I I mean, I literally spent spent 25 years traveling the world with him, right? So, I mean, like basically my whole entire life was hand in hand with him. Everything we did swimming related was together. Um and and you know, I think once I did make that Olympic team, that really really made me trust him. Because I was like like like for me because I know you said don't skip, but like when I made that Olympic team and I got fifth, I was pissed, but I was hungry. Right? Because I didn't want a piece of paper that somebody said, "Congratulations, you came and competed." That's not why I came. I came because I wanted something around my neck. That's it. So, I remember that day after my Olympic final in Sydney, the workout paper he wrote down, it said WR on the top of it. And for people who don't know, that means world record. And I was like, "What's this?" He goes, "You're going to break a world record in 6 months." And I was like, "Okay. Sure. Let's see what happens." Sure enough, 6 months later, I break a world record. So, like again, like that's where the whole trust really really opened up. Um but but you know, I think through you know, from the time I got with him to the time I was 15, he basically just broke my strokes completely apart. Um like he started from scratch. Uh you know, I I had some good things going on with my body and how I swam and the reach, obviously I have super long arms, long wingspan, short legs, really strong legs, um short but wide. My my [clears throat] my quads are huge. Um so for me like it when I got to him at 11 years old, I still remember back in the day, so the people who don't understand swimming, a six-beat kick is three kicks per one stroke. So, it's one, two, three with your legs per one stroke. So, he was teaching me the importance of a six-beat kick. It wasn't 11, I forget what age it was, but um he said, "Every time you drop your legs in a practice and you don't do a six-beat kick, I'm going to kick you out." And the first day I got through like 500 of a 6,000-yard workout. Kicked me out. Next day, 2,000, kicked me out. Next day, 2,500, kicked me out. Next day, 3,000, kicked me out. Next day, 4,000, kicked me out. By the end of the week, I got to a full workout. And from that day forward, I never dropped my feet for a single stroke of freestyle for the rest of my career. Did I agree with what he was doing? No, it sucked getting kicked out. It was absolutely miserable sitting there watching my friends train and and and be in a practice, but I learned the importance of the small technical points that you have to have in order to be able to go wherever you want to go, right? Like it's almost like a college level class. You can't take the thousand level class without taking the one through nine, right? Like so, there's a process through it all and he taught me that process throughout my career and we were able just to sharpen up those tools, right? Like that's really all it became. Um because you know, throughout my career, we ended up ended up just trying to shave off hundredths of a second. How do you shave off 5/100 of a second? Mhm. Is it a turn? Is it a kick? Is it a streamline? What is it? Is it dive angle? Like what what how do we do it, right? So, it's trial and error. But it all started from those years um when we first started working together. I mean, whether it was mindset, whether it was goal setting, whether it was preparation, routines, um you know, that's where stretching came into play. All that stuff to to just get your body prepared. Um my warm-ups were the same at every single meet from the time that I was 13 or 14 till the time I retired. It didn't change. 8642 or 6442, every single warm-up. Who was more ambitious, you or your coach? Uh you could probably say both of us at different stages of my career. >> [snorts] >> Cuz I think leading up to 2008, I don't think there was anybody more ambitious than me. Post like '04 or '08 to 2012, he was way more ambitious. He wanted and I just wanted nothing to do with the sport. Um and then when I came back, I think we both wanted it. When I came back to finish in '16, um we were both equally as hungry and wanting to do or wanting to finish, I guess, what we had started the right way. Um because I mean, I I've said this and I'll say it a thousand times more, like there's not a coach on this planet that could have helped me, coached me to be able to do what I was able to do. Not a single person. I was an [ __ ] I was a little [ __ ] dude to coach, I know it. And he'd say it, too. Um and I'd say the same about him. But you know, I think again, like it's the passion that we had and and we learned a lot about each other through the process, right? It was you know, he had to adapt, I had to adapt cuz I wasn't that 11-year-old kid that he wanted to start working with when I was 30, Mhm. right? So, just that change that we had to go through was was um was important for us to have the the relationship that we had for as long as we had. You your coach also said people around you or everybody to not to say the word Olympic. What was when was that? What was that story? I mean, my mom when I made the Olympic team in 2000, she like fully decorated the front yard with like all these American flags and like this, that, and the other. And my mom was or my coach is Bob goes, "This is the last time you're ever going to do this. Never again." Um >> What? And and I think because it's like I mean, I think looking back at it now, I would say because the goal wasn't just to make the Olympic team. That wasn't the goal. The goal is to win an Olympic gold medal. Not just be a part of the Olympic Games, but win the Olympic Games. Be a champion at the Olympic Games. So, I think once you get caught up in just making the Olympic team, then sometimes you might slip and not pay attention to the small details that are going to help you be your best self at the Olympic Games. Right? Like I I mean, I see it in I see it with athletes that have been on Olympic teams with me, right? Like they had this dream of making an Olympic team. It's making and that's it. Just getting there. It's not actually doing my best time at the Olympic Games and potentially coming home with hardware. That was my goal from day one when I had my first Olympic race. Get a gold. Yes, but it's how do I get faster than my trials swim, right? For me, I wanted to drop So, in the US, we have Olympic trials and top two people in each individual event get to go. There's over 2,000 swimmers that at that Olympic trials. And a maximum of 52 people will be on an Olympic team. 52 out of 2,000 plus. And those 2,000 will also come from like all over the place. Yeah, so like but like you know, I think it it just like got I just lost a train of thought. What was I talking about? You were talking about your Olympic >> Oh, yeah, yeah. Okay, now I got it. That you always wanted just win the medal. So, yeah, but like for me, like when I made my first Olympic team in 2000, it was about dropping a second from Olympic trials to the Olympic Games. Drop one second. If I can do that, then I'm in I'm in the realm of winning an Olympic medal, right? So, I dropped 98/100 of a second and I missed a medal by less than 3/10. And I had to wait another 4 years to have another chance. How did you feel like you were 15 when you entered Olympics? You were the youngest in the world to do that. Youngest since 1932. And then you you end up coming fifth, sixth? Fifth. How did you feel? First time, 15-year-old, youngest person, fifth. Fifth. Upset. [clears throat] They gave me a piece of paper like you have in front of you that says, "Good job, you competed. You got fifth." I don't want to get fifth. I'm not there to get fifth. I'm not. I'm there to hear my national anthem play. That's it. I mean, obviously, that was a stretch for me at that time, but I think having that opportunity of getting fifth and representing my country and being at the biggest stage at such a young age, I think just only prepared me naturally for what was going to come. But you messed up in your first Olympic Games, right? I think you you forgot your paper. Oh, yeah, I forgot my credential. Well, I didn't forget my credential, I took my roommate's credential. Um I was roommates with another one of the younger guys on the team and and uh I we had our credentials just on like the handle of a door >> Mhm. and I just ended up grabbing his instead of mine. We look nothing alike. So, uh, I ended up going to the pool and they wouldn't let me in the pool. I didn't have my credential. I tried to go back to the village and I couldn't get on the bus or get back in the village because I didn't have a photo of me on my credential. >> [sighs and gasps] >> So, that kind of delayed my warm-up and my process of getting ready. Um, the slightest bit and I mean I don't think that threw me off. I mean because still I didn't even tie my suit before the race. My my strings of my suit were just tucked into my like the top of my suit which is I mean they're not going to fall off. The suits are so tight and so small. They are not going to fall off. No shot. But I mean I just wasn't prepared, you know, I think. The biggest thing I learned from that moment is is just understanding what needs to take place at the most pressured moment. Right? You know, like for me, yeah, I've gone to the Olympic trials, but I never experienced what an Olympic Games was, what a swim meet on different soil feels like. And especially in Australia where swimming is the number one sport, right? I mean the floor was shaking. I remember it vividly. The floor was shaking because there was an Australian in my heat next to me who ended up getting third. I mean like literally like the it was it was vibrating. There was 18,000 people on one side and then all the media and the dignitaries are on the left. And yeah, I mean like everything just threw me off. Like looking back >> was going on in your mind? I was a deer in headlights. Just scared. Not really knowing what the hell to do. But I knew that I had to just get up on the block and race. Um, and that was something that, you know, still to this day like I miss. Like I I loved I loved competing. I loved racing more than anything on the planet. A chance for me to get up versus the rest of the world or versus the like my teammates, my competitors in the US and have a chance to show who is the best. Yes, every single time. Because naturally like I'll always go to that that next level because I I I don't like to lose. So, yeah, getting fifth it was terrible. It sucked. But again, like I truly believe had I got a medal 2004 might have been different. Right? You know, like me falling short of a goal there probably gave me more motivation to rip into that next four years to make sure I don't have that feeling again. I don't have that sadness or that disappointment again. Yeah, it took me a lot to just to make the Olympic team, but still like getting there again, you got to wait four years. I don't want to wait another four years. So again, like I want everything to be perfect when I have that chance. And I think having 2000 I think gave me the chance to do my trial run in 2004 to prepare for what was to come in 2008. So when you >> [clears throat] >> when you came fifth with a paper, you came home and now you're like I don't even know where that paper is. What whatever that thing was, right? Honestly like it's just like like a participation. Like it's just like here and I'm like I don't want it. >> And then you came home and you're thinking like 2004 is going to be my year. I'm going to come back home with gold medal. If I could place a camera in your head, what was going on in your head? Like first day when you just came back from Well, I knew you know, like back to that story of getting back into training the day after, you know, that's something that that naturally athletes don't do coming off an Olympic Games, right? Like you you kind of take that four weeks like two to four four to six weeks four to eight weeks kind of just to recover to get back into that cycle um, to prepare for an Olympic Games, but for me it was right back into it because it in the sport of swimming when you miss one day, it takes you two days to get back to where you were. So if you miss two months, it's going to take you four months to get back to where you were. So for me from 2000 into 2001, I didn't miss a step. Right? I was right back into training. I mean I went back into training. I mean I would say I probably did a 5K over 5K. I think I did like eight 200s or 10 200s backstroke long course in lane one in the Sydney warm-up pool the day after the 200 fly in 2000. And on the top of the paper it said WR in six months at Nationals. And I went to Nationals six months later which are World Championship trials um, for that following summer in Japan. And the last 50 I came back on the existing world record holder at the time Tom Malchow and I ran him down with 10 15 m to go. Um, and I broke the world record 1:54.92. Um and that kind of catapulted me into that next summer. I won my first World Championship at 16 and rebroke the world record. Um, and then from that point forward rebroke it in 2002, rebroke it in 2003, rebroke it in 2004 when I won the gold medal. Um, it was just Did I? No, I didn't break it. I didn't break it in 2000. Not not winning the gold medal, but I did break it in that year in that calendar year. I just won on a tear. Um, and I think kind of once I got that taste of success, like I was saying earlier, that was, you know, for me it was what else can I do? How much faster can I go? And I think that's when we started expanding and swimming different events. Right? Like I was swimming the 200 IM. I started swimming the 400 IM, the 100 fly, the 200 free, the 200 back. Um in 2008 I was the American record holder in the 100 freestyle. Um, I I just became super versatile and that was something that we started back early when I was working with Bob. Um, cuz we had a goal back then of trying to be top 10 in the world in every single stroke. Butterfly, backstroke, breaststroke, and freestyle. You But you took four days off from 2000 to 2004. Pretty much yeah, because I had a wisdom wisdom teeth. >> [snorts] >> And I think maybe like I wouldn't even say I got sick. Like I I mean even if I was sick, I was still in the water. I was still training. Um But you were so obsessed with training and you believe that even one day off is going to take you two days back. Why do you even take four days off then? Well, I had to. Uh, I mean I had to later in my career for certain surgeries. I had hand surgeries throughout my career. Um, but I think at that point it was if I'm not taking the opportunity that I have, then somebody else is going to take that opportunity away from me. And I want the opportunity to be mine. So for me it was, you know, I think it it was all about control. What can you control? I can control not getting sick by taking care of my body. Right? So I think naturally over time I learned how to take care of my body. But did you feel guilty on the days when you were off? Do you feel bad like [ __ ] like >> It sucks. Yeah, like I mean it sucked because I was missing an opportunity and a chance, but once you're going through surgery, if you have surgery, then it's kind of like you need to give your body some kind of recovery. Um I don't think it really hurt taking those days off. Um because I think then after that I it was like I went on a six-year stretch where I didn't miss a single day. Um and a lot of people say why and I say why not. Right? There's no blueprint on how to win eight gold medals. There's no blueprint on how to break 39 world records. There's no blueprint on how to win 23 Olympic gold medals. Um, the only thing you can do is trial and error. Mhm. >> Um, for me, yeah, I mean I I would say I became obsessed. But I think it's that fine line between obsession and passionate that I always flirted with. Um, and I I was over I was overly passionate about trying to be the absolute best. You know, for me at such a young age I I I had a goal of of doing something that no one has ever done in the sport and also changing the sport and taking it to a new level. So there wasn't going to be anybody that was going to stand in my way of doing that. You know, I I looked up to Michael Jordan and what he did, you know, on the court of uh on the basketball court and and, you know, no matter what he was going through physically, mentally, personally. Um, you know, when he was out there performing, he left every single ounce on the basketball court. You know, he had the flu in the flu game, still dropped what? 50, 40, 45? Like Yeah, right. Like there was just no excuses, right? So um, for me every single day is an opportunity to get better. No matter how yesterday went. If you had a bad day yesterday, today is a different day. Period. That's it. You can't live in the past and you can't live in the future. The only thing you can do is live in the present. Walk me through four five techniques or certain thing that you would do in that five six years of training where you were truly preparing to win gold. You know, I'll tell before you actually go there, I'll tell you one of the most watched Michael Phelps video is a clip by me which is funny on the internet >> [laughter] >> because I was researching for this this podcast and I I typed on YouTube the most watched Michael Phelps clip and in that clip I'm explaining where in one interview he said that there was there was a faith in your life probably 6 7 years where somebody's asking you that what was the what's the reason of your success? Why do you win? And you say just train every day. Yeah. And they say that's it. >> the small things. Yeah, I mean >> And then you said no, train every day. >> Yeah. No Christmas. Yeah, I try not to be. >> party, nothing, no flu, just train every day. And that that clip is doing really well for some reason. But explain me what happened in those 6 years. I mean it's it's it basically really is what can you control? What is in your control every single day? And it's like you're eating, you're sleeping, you're drinking water, you're stretching if you're sore, you're lifting if you're trying to get stronger, you're working on your endurance and staying in your endurance level, working on heart rate if that's what you're trying to improve. There's so many different little small things that you can do it depending on what your goals are. >> [gasps] >> So for me it's it's how can I be prepared every single day, right? So like if I go back to that point, you know, after the 2000 Olympic Games, like it wasn't you know, it was probably 2002 2003 where I started doing ice tubs. Right? So it's recovery. How can I how can I recover my body and my mind every single day to make sure that my body, if I'm treating it like a Ferrari and I want it to go that fast every single day I have to recover. I have to treat my body with with love, right? So if I'm not eating, if I'm not stretching, if I'm not drinking water, if I'm not sleeping, if I'm not staying off my feet, if I'm not all of these small things, then I don't have a chance to be my best during those two to four hours when I'm in the pool every single day. So it it became literally a full-time job the age of 15 16 because I mean I was professional at 15 or 16 years old. So I treated it like a job. Um everything I did was eat, sleep, and swim. Sure, I was in school um until I I was in school through high school and then I took 6 months of credits at Michigan and decided that I needed to focus on swimming and that's what I did. Um but yeah, I mean like it it was >> your coach like created >> like we'd start in the morning with a training session and then I would go and eat a bunch of plates of food for breakfast just to recover from the you know 7500 yard workout we just did. Um go home, take a nap, wake up eat something else go back to the pool train for 2 hours go home eat, sleep, wake up and do it all over again. It literally like it became a job at such a young age. Every day for 6 years. >> Every day. Yeah. So But your coach also created adversities during the training. What was what was it like? Why would you train like like put do it in the dark, do it without water, do it >> mean like there were so many different things he tried to do just to or just to mentally prepare us I think for things that we were going to go through or could potentially go through. Tell me worst three. >> Um I mean like he would break my goggles or step on my goggles on purpose to teach me to make sure I had a backup pair. And naturally in 2008 my goggles fill up with water as soon as I dive in and I had to revert back to a training a training habit that I did to help me count strokes to get through that race. And naturally I hit the wall at the right time, but I was able to win and I was able to break the world record, too. So you know, I think the things that he did like breaking my goggles or um you know, like I I've had my suit rip right? And and you know, during that time if you're getting ready for an Olympic final or a world championship final and your suit rips your emotions are going to change, right? So I was able to then because of what I went through, whether it's from the breaking the goggles or or you know going 10 workouts a week where I'm going 10,000 meters every single session and going 100k bang bang bang just every week. Um I think it it just gets you relaxed in those super high-pressured tense moments when all of these lights are on and there's millions of people staring at you. Oh, and by the way, we're swimmers, so we're half naked. You know, so it's like >> [snorts] >> um but but I think that's what it was. Like he was just uh he was obsessed with with being over-prepared. Um you know yeah, it's probably a little psych
