doesn't change in general, but it changes as >> once we got to that point where we we knew we were going to stay for a little bit longer, >> it was almost like a reset. It was almost like the start of the whole expedition all over again because other folks were leaving and then we were going to be the normal seven. >> So, at that point in time, it felt like it's just starting. So, time is normal. Um somewhere in there uh there was a thought that we might not come home until May and somewhere around Christmas like oh that might be long we'll be [laughter] up here for a long period of time and so that was that's when time sort of slowed down a little bit and also I mean it goes handinhand with activity level also um we had just finished doing a lot of science experiments >> we were just getting ready to do some spacew walk stuff so we had a little bit of a lull time Um, and so time was a little bit slow there. And then it accelerates when activities happen again. As soon as we started getting ready for spacew walks, like a week and a half, two weeks before the spacew walks, things started going fast. Um, our first spacew walk was January 16th. And then, so right after New Year's, it was like, oh my gosh, now time is like accelerating. Then we had another one at the end of January. And then it was like a breather for a second thinking, okay, now we have a lot of time again. Slow down. And then they said, "Okay, now you're coming home in March >> all of a sudden." And so then all a sudden time really accelerated and everybody was like, "Let's getting one last picture. Let's do the, you know, what did I want to do before I left?" >> All of that was happening really quick. So I think it goes in in in waves depending on activity level, depending on um the projection of when you might be home. >> Um I'll go back to the very beginning. The summer seemed a little bit long, too. That seemed like it was dragging on a little bit without decision. >> [laughter] >> Did you feel Did you feel lonely in one of those 286 days? >> Um I don't know about lonely. Um there was always people around. Um >> but family wasn't. >> Yeah, the family wasn't. Um the people that you end up living in space with are like family though. They become family. Like I you probably seen pictures of us during Christmas time uh Thanksgiving and Christmas where we uh you know we we tried to connect with family. We actually had like uh in the United States there's a big parade Macy's Day parade for Thanksgiving. We had that on a screen so we could watch it. Sort of makes that connection back to home. And on those on holidays we actually have some time off. So it's nice to be able to call home and do [clears throat] like a uh video conference with people back at home too. and you know do a tour, show people around and um it's fun to see your crew mates like at the dinner table and have them wave to your family and see each other's families and stuff like that too. So I think when you get lonely you have an opportunity to one make some phone calls on the weekends or when you have some free time, make some video calls and just try to see what's going on back at home and have folks back at home try to see what's going on up in space. Um I reconnected with a lot of my relatives um while I was up there which was wonderful. Some of my folks some the capability is there right and we all learned it from COVID how to zoom and how to be in do video conferences sometimes not so successfully as everybody's talking on top of each other [laughter] but um you know some of my relatives here in India some of my relatives uh you know all over the country in United States would all get on and then I could talk to them and give them a tour around. It was that was that was actually a lot of fun and um makes it not feel like lonely. Of course, when you hang up, you're like, "Oh, you know, I wish I was down doing this." Or, you know, when somebody's telling you some of the fun things that they're doing, of course, you wish you were there >> being part of that. But then you pinch yourself for a second and you go, "Oh my god, I'm living up in space. This is so cool. Look, like go to the window for a second and see how beautiful it is." I mean, >> I I really wasn't that lonely, honestly. Not at all. No. No. I miss my dogs mostly. Was there so you you never had the loneliest night in space? You don't remember? >> Not really. [laughter] Maybe I I feel like I'm a robot answering these questions, but um but you know, I mean that's like I think one of the things that I would like people to realize like this is an amazing opportunity when you have an I mean even uh I think about when I was had deployments at sea. You know, you get up in the morning. Maybe it's an attitude. I don't know. But you get up in the morning, you go outside and you see some some of the most beautiful sunrises that you can ever imagine in the middle of the ocean on a, you know, deployment. Same thing. You get up in space and you go to the window and you don't know what you're going to see. I mean, every day is like, "Oh, what's there?" You know, it's a surprise or it's nighttime or what does lightning look like or whatever. It's just incredible. And you you also know that this is not going to last forever. You're going to come home at some point in time. I mean, I think that's always on the back of my mind. I was like, this is a chance. Even on my first flight, I was sad to leave. I was like crying like when I left because I was like, I don't know if I'll ever have this opportunity again. And it's so incredible. >> What are the kind of dreams you get in space? Is it different? >> Oh, interesting. My father asked me the same question because he was a neuro was a neuroscientist and um you know, sometimes you dream about I think you dream about sometimes experience, right? So it was like dreaming about where you are, what you're doing. And then it gets a little bit crazy as all dreams do, right? So they're not reality. But but like I was dreaming that I was in space. I was dreaming that I was doing spacew walks. I was also dreaming that I was back at home. Like it was so interesting that you could dream about both of those. And I feel like when I've come back to Earth, I've also dreamed about being in space as well, cuz I've had that experience. It's it seems like it wears off though, which is unfortunate. As the farther and farther you get away from your space flight, you sort of come out of that. Like it's like I don't dream as much about space anymore. I used to when I first got back quite a bit. >> But is it different when you dream here on Earth and when you dream in the space? Like is it the kind of dreams do you dream of falling? Do you dream of [laughter] >> All the same. I think the same in that regard, but you based on experience. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I wasn't fall. If I was dreaming about space, I wouldn't fall. >> Yeah. Exactly. [laughter] >> Yeah. [snorts] >> So, there there's nothing different about it. Do you hear like different kind of sounds? Because you're always constant in an environment which is either very silent or like very noisy. >> Oh, it's noisy all the time. >> All the time. I think the most the biggest impression though is as you're getting ready to fall asleep um before you're asleep, you see like little like little pieces of light with your eyes closed and it's dark. Um and the reason I guess it's it's a radiation I think that's coming and so that it's not like what your eyes are seeing. It's some radiation that's hitting some part of your brain which is triggering a vision of this little light flashes which is a little bit bizarre. Um I I don't wouldn't say it's scary, but it's a little unnerving because then you're just like what kind of radiation am I getting up here and I'm not protected. You know, that's that's um some of those long-term effects of being in space and are I think in just in general health-wise a little worrisome. So um you want to protect yourself as much as possible. >> So what's the health cost you pay when you come back? So like so I mean initially when you come back you're you're not feeling very good but that that goes away pretty quick. >> What are you feeling like the moment you land on Earth? Yeah. >> Back after like 286 >> for me nauseous like a little sick and it didn't help that this time we landed in the water and then at you know everybody was concentrating on the dolphins that were there um outside of the capsule. But if you look at all the while the dolphins are swimming or when we landed we went all the way over and then back up again. And it was funny because the thought in my head was like, "Oh no, if we turn over all the way upside down, that's not going to be good." But, you know, it was just sort of like casual thought like that, like, h, that's not going to be good. And then we came back up and we're sort of bobbing for a second like a cork. Like, so if people don't feel good when they're on a boat, think about it that way. >> Um, you feel a little bit nauseous and you're going to feel nauseous anyway. For me, I always feel a little nauseous when I come back. The neurovvestibular system has not been working while you're up in space. it sort of shut down and you have other feelings of orientation while you're up there. You your the way our we evolve our inner ear for balance is not is not needed while you're up in space because gravity's not affected on it. So so anyway when you come back all of a sudden gravity's a player and then you for me I felt pretty nauseous for like uh 24 hours and what's something that's uh provocative as you say as they say is like getting out of your spacuit when you put it over your head and pitch your head up like that. um that really makes you feel a little sick. So, we get out of we are getting out of the spacecraft and we get out with on a like a sort of like a a little seat uh with people helping us because there's a big hole in the in the spacecraft for where the cargo is and so nobody wants to trip and fall getting out first of all because you're not feeling too good and then they just take us to the back where we can get out of our space suits. Um, right after that though, once you're out of your suit and you uh not feeling like you're going to throw up, you can stand up and um we walked up the stairs to where the helicopter was and took us out of there. >> So that still nauseous for me for about 24 to 48 hours is the big thing. And usually you'll see people with somebody helping them, supporting them, just because all the little balance muscles that you use here on Earth that you don't even realize and the small muscles in your neck, all of that has to get recharged again. >> And so that takes for me, you know, realistically to get all the way back about a month. And we work with our physical trainers to for some certain exercises. They and they give us tests along the way to see how we're doing, see how we're improving. And it's actually pretty cool to see your body like come back to human self again, you know, [laughter] to earthly self again. So >> So you feel you like when you come back for that month when you're trying to acclimatize, adapt to the earth again, do you feel like things are falling or like if you pick up the pen and it's just going to go like that? Like do you get these things? >> You um >> because I saw a video of eating, you know, the liquid pineapple juice. that I saw that >> you it happens for a little bit but you you'll you'll learn pretty quick that or gravity is the you know predominant force in on this on this planet so you can't get away from it so it's [laughter] here >> it's not but you learn like pretty quickly but do you >> like you'll do something stupid first like I'll just drop this bottle like oh okay never mind so you do you do one thing and then it's then it's like you're back yeah >> and is [clears throat] it like more difficult for you to book after you come back for >> No, no, not really. It's not difficult. You're just going to potentially fall over. So, [laughter] so I mean just because of balance. So, you need that's why somebody usually helps. I was just looking at the >> even that month. >> Oh, no, no, no, no. Just just for like two days or something. Yeah. Yeah. And um and usually I we don't drive for a little bit just cuz you know you're just reaction time might be a little bit slow and so somebody will take us drive us to where we need to go for the first week or >> and all your senses do do they work differently when you come back like the sound the smell? uh I think uh enlightened to what's here on Earth. Like I remember distinctly on my first mission we landed in the desert in California and the s when as soon as I opened the hatch the smell of dirt and sage cuz there's a lot of the sage plant there that smell was so predominant like wow like I could just we're back on a plant you know on planet earth again so it was it was wonderful it was nice cuz you things that you miss like all of that that and like wind those are like things that you really like oh my gosh I feel this and being [clears throat] in the first time in a shower feels really really good. Not just not cuz you're necessarily dirty because we don't really get dirty up there. We just sweat and then you know take a a sponge bath. Um but just to feel something falling on you that's really nice. And one of it's funny one of the one of the other things that um Don Pettit and I had this conversation like you know what I really miss is a sink. Like just to go someplace and put your hands under wash your hands and then wash your face. those things you just miss versus just squirting water and then rubbing it on yourself, you know. So, I don't know. There's just different funny things like that that get little triggers. Yeah. >> You when you came back, the first thing you ate was the wedge grilled cheese sandwich. >> Oh, yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. >> Because it reminded you of your father. >> Yes. Yes. Well, it's funny. I had that before I flew on my first flight for sure from my father and I was thinking about coming it coming back up again and I was like h this will be smooth [laughter] won't be hard to get if I throw up and when I came back to earth specifically this time uh over the last couple years my husband has started to make homemade bread and uh I couldn't think of a better thing to eat than a grilled cheese with his homemade bread was like putting those two together h so good [laughter] >> what did Did it taste like? Did it remind you of your father? >> Oh, yeah. Yeah. Remind of my dad, of course, just just just because he ate grilled cheese all the time and uh just it was yummy cuz we didn't we don't have really good bread, you know, we have little teeny loaves of bread up there and tortillas and so having really good bread and having cheese, which is which like a little bit of a luxury in space. We get it every now and then um but we don't have it on a regular basis up there. We have some canned cheese on the Russian side, but um just every now and then we get a specialty like a chunk of cheese, but we don't really have cheese all the time. >> You you were close to your father, right? >> Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. >> What do you miss about him the most? >> Um I think I miss just going for a walk with him. That's uh that was always nice. I mean, he was he was one of these types of people who could really go for a walk and observe um everything around him. And not that he's talking about it all the time, but he might just stop you for a second and then tell you something and just, you know, just having a nice conversation with him. >> You know, you you you're so accomplished. You've done so many things. And somebody asked you about your father and you said that your accomplishments are relatively way easier than your father. Like your father is much more accomplished. Why did you say so? >> Oh, I I absolutely believe that. you know, one, you know, he did a lot of those things, his life, accomplishments in his life on his own, like just went out there and did it. I feel like I've been sort of guided uh by having a military career and then, you know, >> not necessarily being told, but like, hey, this is the opportunity or this is the what you're supposed to be doing. And so, I'm just doing things. And then then some advice from from some friends like I mentioned about becoming an astronaut. Um, that's all just sort of it seemed like it was easy and it was piled on each other. Not necessarily easy, I shouldn't say it that way, but like it was obvious when things became obvious. Whereas my for my dad, I think about somebody making the decision, trying to make the decision, what do I want to do when I grow up? I have to um if I want to go to school, I have to have really good grades or I'm not going to get in school. You know, I I want to go to medical school. It's was very com competitive. It is very competitive here in India. It's in competitive in the United States too, but I I would say >> uh more so here. And um and he didn't have his parents to help him or to guide him. He just decided he was going to do it and decided like this is how I have to live. I I'm going to go to boarding school. I'm going to go to medical school. I'm going to somehow figure out a way to come to the United States and practice medicine there and see how that is and decide whether or not I'm coming back or going. And I mean, I have my brother over there, but that's it. I don't know what this journey is going to be like. I mean, for us, we like get on a plane and we go someplace across the c around the globe or on a spacecraft and he had to get on a boat. That whole experience and part of the reason he ate cheese was cuz the first time he ate cheese was on the ship that he was coming over here. He didn't know what it was. He was like, "What is this plasticky thing?" [laughter] But he um so after that he liked cheese and then he ate grilled cheese because he didn't really know >> what to make and how to make stuff when he came to the United States right away until he got some friends and you know gathered with them and then was able to make some other food. But grilled cheese was his go-to because it was easy. He knew it was vegetarian. It [laughter] was good. >> Do you still measure your success against his? I no I just I just when people ask about it I just I think to myself like oh gosh don't make such a big deal about it because there's other people who have done some incredible things um and had to plan it out do it all on their own and so that's why I I feel like his accomplishments were so much more um brave and courageous than mine. >> And you you you don't take compliments well do you? [laughter] Well, I feel like I I I know myself, right? And I'm not extraordinary. I'm just somebody who has put their head down and and done some stuff and has didn't take no for an answer. But I'm not extraordinary. And I say that to you because I think there's many more young astronauts out there. And I I they'll probably be doubting themselves at some points in time. And that's okay. But that they can do it. You know, this is not an extraordinary feat. Wow, you're extraordinary. [laughter] I don't know why you think that, you know, you're extraordinary and I'm sure like 99.99% people will feel about that. >> Oh gosh. >> Probably like 01% somewhere thinking otherwise. >> No, I I'm ser but I I feel I I mean I honestly uh feel this way like if I could do these things, anybody could do these things. I had a hard time in college, [laughter] you know, and I there was subjects in high school that I still had hard times with, you know, like people are are they can do it. We're smart. I mean, I think sometimes we just don't tap our potential. >> Yeah. You know, because you're talking about your father, I always feel like I like asking this question, so I want to go ahead and ask you, what do you wish your father would have seen in you before he left? >> Oh, wow. Um umh that's what I I remember him saying one time I'll just I don't know if I'm going to answer your question exactly but I remember him saying I was after like my first flight or something um maybe my second flight and we were talking about space and he goes he goes you know a lot about space [laughter] and I said dad I know a lot about space because I live there like of course I know a lot about space. I would say you know like I grew up in Nita Massachusetts right I would say you know a lot about Nita Massachusetts we grew up there so [laughter] like it's the same type of thing which was just sort of funny for me to have him uh say that which was and and then we we had a good laugh about it. Um, but [gasps] I think I you know it's funny. I think after I became a a test pilot and an astronaut, he was you know we were he was doing his life, I was doing my life after I graduated from college. So I don't think he knew exactly and my mom either what I was doing. Um, they all came to my test pilot school graduation and I think it was it was enlightening for them to see all of the aircraft that we were flying and what we were doing because before that I was in the Navy and I was deploying and going away. Um, and so I don't think it was tangible because it was so out of like the realm of what uh folks in my family were doing at that time. Um, like exactly what we're doing. But when they saw all the different aircraft and helicopters and and heard a lot about that, I think uh both of both of my parents at that point in time were a little surprised that I went down that path. Like they knew that was going on, but they really didn't see it until that time because all the aircraft were there, all my classmates were there. And then as when I became an astronaut, I think there was a little bit of the same thing. It seems different from everything our family was doing. So, it's hard to really put your hands on it. Um, but when they all went to my first launch to see a space shuttle launch out of Florida, I think that like was an eyeopening experience for everybody like, "Wow, this is this is serious. We launch on rockets." My sister who said such a funny thing. I called her once I got to the space station. I said, "What was your impression? What was you?" Because I like to hear what people's impressions are. Like, what was it like? She goes, "Oh my god, it was nighttime launch, too." She goes, "Oh my god, there was so much fire." [laughter] And I said, "Yeah, that's what's at the bottom of rockets. It's fire. That's how they go." You know, and [laughter] uh but it was it's funny because I think at that point in time, people realized what this is all about. And I think my father at the same time figured out like, "Wow, she's actually going to space." >> And um I I think he was the one who gave me the Bhagavad Gita. He was the one who gave me the upnids on my second flight. And um I think he was just like you're you're you have a unique experience and uh stay grounded live and live in the moment. >> You you carry Bhagat Gita and Lord Ganesh till with you right because your father gave it to you. So does it still feel the same or does it feel different now? >> Um >> like when you carry Bhagat Gita with you now when your now that your father's not with you. >> Yep. Yeah. I mean it's a little a little piece of him is with it all. Of course. I mean that's that's why I'm I'm Indian, right? That's that's why that's because of him is I think a lot half at least half of my personality is because of him and and understanding of the universe around us is because of him. >> So what part of it feels different now? Um um since he's not here, uh it's it seems like he's part of all of that, which is sort of interesting thought process. I didn't think about that before, but like since he's not with us, he's part of all of that uh that you feel and you study is in the universe. >> He's not here just to be like next to me to tell me about the plants and the trees and the birds. He's part of all of that. Nice. And what specific trait you would say you inherited from your father? >> Um >> is there any because you've said that you got your Slovenian stubbornness from your mother. >> Oh yeah, you've heard it. Yeah. Yeah. [laughter] Yeah. I think uh from my father I'm very lucky to be to have the ability to stop and just observe around me. Uh, I like this one picture Don Pettit took of me in the Koopa because um, and my friend Tracy took one that was like this, too. It's It's nice to just have some moments of time, not when you're taking a picture or trying to do something, when you can just stop and look at what's going on around you. I did not get that from my mom. My mom is very, very, very active, but my father had the ability to just um be one with with the world for a moment. Uh maybe it's on a walk, but maybe it's sometimes just hanging out. >> Did any part of you change after he's gone? >> You know, um I miss him physically, you know, cuz it's always nice to just be able to talk to somebody, but at the same time, you know, his passing was very peaceful and I feel like he was he was ready to go. It was funny. It was very interesting when he passed away. We uh my sister and I were just coming in to see him and he just passed and he was I think he was just in a peaceful place cuz he was he was up and around maybe a half an hour before we had were there and so I think he was just sort of like it's my time to go to the next place and it'll be okay. >> So that made us feel okay too. Mhm. [laughter] >> And you so when you carry Lord Ganesh with you, you said like it's been your good luck charm. It's been always there all around your house. You always carried with you. Do you see your father in that energy now? >> Um >> with Lord Ganesh like >> not not [clears throat] as a person, you know, like it's funny like I saying it's his it was his time to leave and and move on to the next thing, right? So uh as I see that as part of who I am because of him. M >> but you don't feel like there's some invisibly he's watching you from somewhere. >> Oh absolutely I know I know he's watching yeah his his spark is there as he would say his spark is there watching me all the time >> you know because we talking about your father and Lord Ganesh and Bhagwat Gita I have to ask you the most obvious question is >> how does India look like from the space? Yeah. So, India uh is sometimes tricky to get a picture of cuz it's a little bit hazy at times. >> Um but sometimes it's awesome. Um so it just depends on one the weather. Uh but there's now and I don't remember this from last like a trail to come to see India because there's fishing boats in the Gulf of Arabia off this off of the coast of India on the west side. There's different parts of different fishing boat uh sections in the world, but it's definitely on the west coast of India. Um, and it's so weird because I thought to myself, how could these be fishing boats? What how could I see a boat? There's no way. Cuz like in the daytime sometimes you can't see the boat, but you can see the wake cuz the wake goes on for miles. But they must have amazing lights. And for whatever reason, if they're looking into the water or if they're trying to attract fish or whatever they're trying to do, I don't know, but you can see these big plots of fishing boats all over the place. So, that's new for nighttime and you can see that coming in. Um, and then at night, which is India is pretty spectacular cuz the cities are lit up. It's white lights and all those lights seems to be like connected. It's almost like when I see it, I think of like nerves like pictures people have of when they like tell you like there's a nerve problem and these nerves are connected d like all of this little connections. India is like that. It's like very connected with lights at night. So that's that was one big impression this time that I didn't remember from last time. Last time uh more so um looking at India in the daytime and the colors are amazing. The Himalayas are absolutely amazing. And you can you can sort of see where it like I've said this before, it feels like where the plates bumped up into each other and and made the you know made the mountains. Um and then the coast is obviously cool because you can see particularly on the east side uh when the rivers run off how they interact with the water on that side, the different colors and swirls from that side. And then at one point in time I took a picture of the interaction between India and how do we call it nowadays? Sri Lanka. >> Yeah. >> Um um and it seems like there's a connection there. I'll just say that. [laughter] >> I'll say that. I think I think that picture took a there was a little bit of a discussion about that picture, but it it looks like there is you know they absolutely could be connected. >> Yeah, there must be some >> there's something there. >> There's something connected. [laughter] Maybe we leave it out there like that. >> Yeah. Yeah. Leave it out there. >> What's And when you look out of the window, okay, this is my sci-fi brain talking, okay? So, just don't doubt me on this question, but I'm still going to be What's the strangest thing you've seen in the space which you think is going to be hard to believe for people here? >> Oh, interesting. Um, uh, two different things that were different or have been different. Um there's a lot of communication satellites up there now, Starlinks. >> And so you can this time uh 10 from 10 years ago, they fly across the the view like you see the stars of course as they're coming, but they fly across the view which is like whoa, what where did these all come from? And um there's which is great because there's a lot of communication now on Earth because we have these constellations of satellites. But there is it was an impression like there is a lot of stuff in orbits around the planet. Um the other thing which was really cool this time uh and we were able it's hard to see with the naked eye but we have some really great cameras and we were able to take pictures not me in particular but Don Pettit and and Matt Dominic of blue jets and red sprites coming out of a thundercloud like energy coming up. Um, it's out there because Nicole Ayes took some after we left, too. And I think those are posted. Um, just amazing that we were able to take pictures of energy coming out of a thundercloud and out of lightning. >> Wow. >> Yeah, that was pretty amazing. So, there's there's just and I had no idea those things existed. People knew they were existing, but it was hard to actually document it. And now the cameras that we have, we can we can document that. So, all of that's pretty pretty amazing. Don was able to also with his camera because these are things you can see. You can see the Milky Way. Like it's amazing to see so many billions of stars out there, but he was and it's hard to take good pictures, pinpoint pictures of stars because we're moving so fast. >> Mhm. [clears throat] >> He rigged up with a little gear box, uh, something to copy the orbital rate as we were flying so he could pinpoint the pictures, pinpoint the stars, and then the lights on the Earth were a little bit blurred. That's backwards of how um normal cameras or normal setups would would would do it. So those pictures are out there also from Don Pettit if anybody gets a moment to take a look on the internet. >> Incredible pictures. So I I had the luxury of being up there with some amazing photographers that were able to do that. >> Do you do you believe there's some life out there? >> Absolutely. With those billions of stars out there, you know, we're just a little planet around one star. So yeah, there's life out there. Um, I mean there's life on Earth in places we never thought they could be. Right at the bottom of the ocean with the thermal vents that are coming up, there's light things that live without uh great pressure without light um in the darkness. So yes, and strange gases [laughter] um that we found actually on our second spacew walk, Butch did some swabbing on the outside of the spacecraft. There's microbes that live on the outside of the space space station. Yes, they're probably from us because they're in the vicinity of where there's some gas vents whenever we vent overboard. Um, so sure, they probably came from us because they're right there. But what it proves to us is something can live in the vacuum of space with the heat heating and cooling. So that's more, you know, you know, proof in the pudding that something can live out there. Um, even as close as uh the moons of Jupiter. >> Mhm. >> Uh, thinking that one of them, at least Europa, I think it is, is has water on it. Uh, it' be nice to drop a spacecraft over there and drop a rover through the ice and see what's going on. And there's some plans to do that as well. But if there's water, there's probably something. Um, there's obviously, you know, evidence of water on the moon and on Mars or some type of liquid, right? So there might be might have been something on Mars at least that we could potentially go see if we go there. >> So >> do you think there's some species around there? >> Um there might be. Who knows? Who knows? We have to go and see. >> You believe in the possibility but you don't know. >> Yeah. Yeah. I mean I don't think it's humans for example. But but there's some type of some forms of life potentially. >> Interesting. >> But potentially. >> Okay. I've like last two three questions for you. >> Yeah. And one of them is tell me the most beautiful thing you've seen. >> I I mean I really think the aurora and one of the really huge benefits of us being up there all of the summer of 24 this year also or last year in 25 but we weren't there [laughter] thankfully. But uh in 24 this summer we had some incredible uh aurora because of solar activity and uh such that the aurora came down. Usually you look out the window and you can see it over there like you're looking and like, "Oh my god, that's amazing. Look at it. It's so great." We're taking pictures out the side so you can sort of see the Earth. This time we flew essentially through the aurora. It was low enough. Our orbits 51.6° so it came down somewhere in that vicinity and it was amazing. like not only like what you typically see of green lights, but you also we also saw pinks and then some purple which means you know that was stronger and there was interacting with other um um elements uh in our in in the vicinity of our magnetic field. So pretty impressive and humbling when you think about it. First time I saw Aurora was on my first flight on a spacew walk and um it was below me and I was like whoa, you know, thinking like um the energy that's out there in the universe is just incredible and something that we could we we worry about energy here on this planet all the time, but there's more out there that we could never even think about harnessing. So, you know, how do we how would we do that, right? It's amazing. So, um that was just mind-boggling and incredible. Yeah. >> Interesting. >> Yeah. Before you set a foot on your first flight, you saw what happened with Kalpna Chabla and then she's she was an incredible mo woman. Absolutely. Inspiration for all of us and role model. Yes. >> Yeah. Like she was she was a friend of yours. She's a role model >> and you saw >> her death. >> Uhhuh. >> Did that event change anything you >> or the way you look at death and life? Because you were taking the same kind of path and she's a friend and she's a role model. She's the first Indian-American woman to do all of these things and you're going to be the next. So, did that change anything you about death? >> I think the not about death, but about the I think the desire to explore more. Uh I know that um her and her crew mates, you know, that's was in their heart. I mean, they were doing some really fundamental science to help us with the space station and understand how we do how the processes work so we can make do even more incredible experiments um while we're up there and then continue this fact of us being able to live for longer in space and then how we can move on. I mean I knew I knew all of them and a couple of them very well really good friends and not only Kulpna but um that was like what was in their heart you know Dave Brown was a really good friend part probably one of the reasons I came to NASA was because I knew him a long time beforehand and he was one of those people who was like sunny this job is for you and so I knew in his heart I know in Kulpna's heart that this is what they wanted to do so I think it g gave us even more of a feeling of like we really want to continue this. We've got to do this in their memory. And same with Challenger. And that's why we continue to fly the space shuttle after Challenger. Like, we can do this and we can do this better and we're going to learn more about this. We're not going to let their um you know, situation put a stop on it. They wouldn't want that. So, we're just going to we're going to press harder. Um and we I think we all know that there's risks involved in this, but we've learned so much from each misstep. I would say we learned from uh Challenger, we learn of course we learned from Apollo 1 and foremost the Russians have learned there a lot of things from soy use issues as well and we've learned from Challenger. We've learned from Colombia. We learned from Starlininer. I mean one of the like the I think the best things about Starlininer is some of those thrusters are on other spacecraft. How do how do we now we need to understand a little bit more about this and make those spacecraft better? and what are the questions we didn't ask and we can ask those questions for the next spacecraft that we're we're going to fly. So, um it didn't scare me. It got me ready ready to go and and >> happy to explore in their name. >> And so, when you're strapping yourself in the rocket in that moment, are you like super optimistic or you are going with a thought that you're prepared to die? Whatever happens, we'll take care of it. >> I think we're not super optimistic and not prepared to die. either one of those things. I think we're ready for uh I mean it was sort of like come on. It's like a game, right? It's sort of like uh like at the beginning of a football match, right? And everybody's pumped up and they're ready to take on the responsibility of whatever action's going to happen, right? They're ready. I think that's how we felt at least, you know, Butch and I getting into we're ready for this. We're ready. Let's go. We know we know what we can handle. We know what we're supposed to do. Like let's just let's go. Bring it on. [laughter] >> There's no other thought. >> Yeah. No, no. It's >> But you do those VR uh simulations, right? In that, do you do you see yourself maybe never coming back or doing something or no? You're like just never thought. >> Oh, no. Like there's a there's a VR thing that we do for uh this backpack that we have on on the back for our spacew walks, right? That is uh to me scary because there's you know you have to practice a little bit to figure out how to fly or with the orbital mechanics to get yourself back to the space station. And when you're learning this um for me I wasn't a natural right from the get-go. I I figured it out and I have a plan. But what so the first time I did it you know I think I missed the space station by like inches and you can't do anything because you're out of gas and like ah and you float away and that would be bad. Um it leaves an impression on left an impression on me like you're just sitting here with goggles on and you're sweating because this is you're working trying to figure out how to solve this problem and nervous that you're going to float away. Um such that there's just probably 99.9% I will never uh get myself in that situation. I can't say 100% but whenever I got to a work site a tether down a second tether down okay now I can take my hands off [laughter] like it left such an impression that you would really never want to get yourself in that situation like I don't ever want to have this happen to me never >> sure >> so >> the last question yeah >> is what's one question you wish people would have asked you >> oh uh um oh I so my biggest takeaway from this flight was really not there there's lots of technical uh things that we learned right like I just mentioned that we could pass on and make the next flight better for make make the hardware better ask the right questions maybe do the engineering process better right all of that is huge lessons learned but the biggest lesson learned is when I came back and again we could talk about the press and how maybe the narrative was a little blown out of proportion in my in my um perspective But uh people would be like, "I'm so glad you came back." People I don't know. I I don't know even what country they're from. I don't know what nationality they are. I don't know what ethnicity they are. I don't know what religion. I don't know what politics there are from all over the world. We're like, "I'm so happy you're back. You know, welcome home. Thankfully, we're praying for you. We were thinking about you." Whatever. You know, and my overall lesson learned from this is like people are good. People are nice. And as human beings, we we care about each other. And it seems like that gets lost with a lot of distractions and noise that are going around. And we just need to listen to each other cuz people are good. >> Does it get you overwhelmed when you talk about it? It bums me out a little bit because I had to go through this process to see that and that's why I keep talking about it because I hope that other people don't have to go through a process. I I hope we would just stop and listen to each other and realize how good human beings are. >> Yeah. >> I I I can see your eyes getting teared up. >> Yeah. No, human beings care about each other and we forget that. We fight over stupid things which is unfortunate. Well, thank you so much for doing this. It was an honor to speak to you, but it was incredibly good. We just need Thank you so much for doing this. >> Thank you so much. Then thanks to your team. You guys are very patient. [laughter] >> Hello. >> Hi. >> How are you? >> Hello, Raj. >> Hi, Raj. Nice sunny. Nice to meet you. >> Nice to meet you. >> Hi, guys. >> How are you? >> We're honored to have you. >> Oh, thank you so much. >> What do you read? What do you usually read? I have read just mostly technical stuff more more [music] recently. Last 10 years of my life have sort of been all consumed by this flight. So um um so that and and commercial crew so I haven't had a lot of just nice reading. I'm reading a funny little book right now about I got it as a gift from Slovenia about weird little Slovenian things which is fun. But I actually more so like uh [music] what is it called? >> Like fictional history. Which book were you reading? I'm interested in this. >> Uh like about um Einstein. >> Mhm. [clears throat] >> Um >> and then there was some other other ones. Um >> but I haven't read them for a little while. But anyway, I liked reading about the people. Yeah. >> Thank you so much for watching this podcast till the end. Please let us know in the comments what all did we do right so that we can improve and keep doing that better and what all did we do wrong so that we never repeat it. And at the same time, please give us suggestions of who's the next guest that you want to see on the podcast. And don't forget to share this episode with at least one person who will get some insights because one conversation is enough to give people enough ideas to change their lives. I'll see you next time. Until then, keep figuring out and also don't forget to subscribe the channel. [music] [music] [music]

