How does India look like from this space? [music] >> Looking at India in the daytime, colors are amazing. The Himalayas are absolutely amazing. You can see uh when the rivers run off, how they interact. Night, India is pretty spectacular. The cities are lit up and all those lights seems to be like connected. Sita Williams and Buchil are still stuck in space and are not expected to return. >> 10-day test flight turned into a 9-monl long mission in space. >> This after their Boeing Starlininer faced ruster failure. >> This time, this flight, the last one, was pretty messed up. >> Once after we launched and then we got to the space station, we knew we weren't going to come home as planned. We knew it would be six more months. When you're in space and coming home is a byproduct of this business, it's risky. >> [music] >> How many situations do you plan for? >> Oh gosh, hundreds. Trained for two years for a launch of a spacecraft cuz we go through with our control team. Hey, what if this failed? What if that failed? And what's the probability of this and that happening? >> Was there any point where you heard some sound and you got scared? We were all a little on edge when in this latest flight when we had a satellite below us in orbit um explode and then there was a bit of a debris field and so we were woken up in the middle of the night to all go to our own spacecraft. It's called safe haven and we all sort of hugged each other. Hopefully I'll see you on Earth. >> Did you feel lonely in one of those 286 days? >> People that you end up living in space they become family. >> Have you cried in space? Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. I miss people and I miss my dog, so of [music] course I cried. >> What was the most difficult part for you of the training? >> Like if I have to just go do something, it doesn't bother me. I've trained. I've done it. Like spacew walk stuff, robotic stuff doesn't make me nervous. But academics in college were hard for me. >> Before you set a foot on your first flight, you saw what happened with Kalpn Chavla. She's a friend of yours. She's a role model. and you saw her death. >> This day has brought terrible news and great sadness [music] to our country that Colombia is lost. There are no survivors. >> Did that event change anything you? I think the desire to explore more. I think it g gave us even more of a feeling of like we really want to continue this. We've got to do this in their memory. We're not going to let their situation put a stop on it. They wouldn't want that. So, we're going to press harder. What's the health cost you pay when you come back? >> For me, I always feel a little nauseous when I come back. The neurovvestibular system has not been working while you're up in space. It's sort of shut down and you have other feelings of orientation while you're up there. For me, I felt pretty nauseous for like 24 hours. >> Do you believe there's some life out there? >> Absolutely. With those billions of stars out there, we're just a little planet around one star. So yeah, there's life out there. >> How does space smell like? Tell me about your biggest insecurity. What's the strangest thing you've seen in the space which you think is going to be hard to believe for people here? >> Interesting. Um uh before starting today's episode, I have a small request. The whole team and I are working very hard to bring bigger and bigger guests for you so that we can give you more value and learnings through better conversations. And to continue doing that, I need you to subscribe our channel. It's free and takes only 2 seconds. And we promise that if you do this, we'll keep bringing the top 1% guests from all around the world and make you prouder one day. Our today's guest has done nine spacew walks, spent more than 62 hours walking in space, more than any other women in human history. Very few women get to lead the International Space Station. And she's not just commanded the ISS once, but twice. She has been part of three epic ISS missions, spent 608 days in space, the second most of any NASA astronaut ever. I'm talking about Sunita Williams, the woman who's flown 40 different aircraft, served as a Navy captain, and is also the first human being ever to have run a marathon in space. And just last year, she was stranded in space for 9 months when a spacecraft failed. The whole world washed, but she didn't panic. She took the charge. And in this conversation, we'll figure out the training, the mindset, the sacrifices it took to become one of the greatest female astronauts in the world. And what does it take to build a mindset where you can be calm when everything is going against you? [music] I'm just really, really honored to do this. I just wanted you to know this. >> Well, thank you. It's fun. It's great to be here. It's great to have a podcast. I know it opens up to another audience. So, thank you for the invitation. >> Everybody knows you, but let's say if 0.01% people don't know you, >> okay, >> then what about your childhood you would tell them which has shaped you the person who you are today? Uh I think the biggest thing about my childhood that shaped me was I came from a family that was multicultural, multi- religions, um multi food, [laughter] most important I guess. And uh and that's a really it's a big benefit. I didn't you know you don't realize it when you're a kid, you know, it's just it's life. It's how it is. Um but I think uh just appreciation for different cultures at a young age not even realizing it I think was really beneficial and set me up um for success I would say just because I I feel like I can um relate to a lot of different people or at least have the patience to listen for a moment. >> At what point in your childhood you felt like this is a strength like m being multicultural is a strength now? Oh gosh. I don't think I realized it for a long time for a while. Like it it was a little bit I think more so um we were different. We are a different family and we all knew that but I don't know I didn't know if it was a strength until later on in life where um >> uh just easy to deal with people. I think [snorts] that >> what do you mean by different? >> Uh well we were the only Indian family in our town. >> Okay. >> Or partially Indian family. So I think we stuck out pretty much. My sister and I had long hair, of course, long Indian hair while we were growing up. We were also swimmers and so we were the type that got up in the morning and swam before school coming into school with wet hair and so we were just different in regards to other people in the town. I think people knew who we were then too. The pandas. [laughter] >> Yeah. >> Did you at any point feel like that was maybe a weakness or that maybe put you in a different light than other people? >> Oh, sure. like as a kid, you know, of course when you're like a a a kid or more so like when you're an early teed, you're you're when you don't blend in with everybody else and you're a little bit different. Of course, that's a little bit uncomfortable. Um but it also at the same time I was I think confident, secure in myself that I, you know, I thought the more important thing was athletics and academics and I didn't really didn't really bother me that much. Were you insecure at any point? >> Absolutely. My whole life I think every and I think everybody is. They just have to sort of push through it and I think that's part of part of life is just like pushing through boundaries and things that make you feel a little uncomfortable and that's the way you can achieve more. So yeah, absolutely. Yeah. >> Tell me about your biggest insecurity. >> Uh ah gosh, my biggest I don't know about my biggest. [laughter] I mean just I my whole job uh from being um you know like first of all as a athlete as a you know you get on the starting blocks you're nervous right so that's one thing you're a little bit insecure about your capabilities and your abilities uh gets proven in the pool or on the track or wherever it is um but you know just getting to that starting point as they say is is a little bit scary um and then just I think in all of the things that I in my career that I've done I had major insecurities about it. Like, wow, am I am I going to be able to pass this check ride? Am I going to be able to be a pilot? Am I going to be able to know how to do a spacew walk? Am I going to be able to do the robotic arm? I think all those all those things. I think there's points of insecurity. Yes, you prepare as best as you can, but then at this at one point in time, at least myself, I doubt myself at times. Um, you know, like >> do you do that today? >> Absolutely. I think we all do it. I think we all do that. Like if you don't then you're not really being introspective. I think >> true. >> I think it's hard to think that you know everything and not have an appreciation for uh the rest of the world around you that might have a surprise for you. >> What are you insecure about today? Like you've accomplished so many things now. [laughter] >> Um a a lot. I mean the next steps of my life. What am I going to do in the next steps of my life? I, you know, I want to, we're moved. I'm retired. We've moved. Uh, what am I going to do? I don't know. And I mean, think I'm insecure about it, but I don't really care cuz it's going to be it's all I know better now. It's all going to work out. I wish I had known that when I was a kid. Uh, you know, cuz I think those insecurities take over a little bit more when you're younger when you don't realize it's all going to work out. >> You know, it's so fascinating. You do like your main work is uncertaintity for living. Like that's what like you don't know what's going to happen the next moment and you're you think about what's going to happen next. That's like you're insecure about the uncertaintity in your life like what's going to happen now but you've lived all your life just thinking about let's live in the moment and not think about what's going to happen next. >> Uh yes and I think you you bring up a good point. Let's I think that is the way you deal with it. Like let's live in the moment. Like I think people have insecurities of course when they look in the future and you but you can't you can't make it you can guide it but you can't uh anticipate every little thing. So living in the in the moment is I think the best methodology. >> You know you say a lot about that u you've made a pivot every time things don't work out you made a pivot. >> So you wanted to become something else in the childhood then you applied for certain things you didn't get in and then you finally ended up becoming who you are today. How did you know that >> this is something that you don't want to give up? because everything every time when it didn't work out, you just pivoted. You're like, "Maybe not for me, not for me, not for me." And then, >> well, I I I like this is another thing I think I wish I knew when I was a younger kid that, you know, things work out for a reason. Um, maybe it's because you have better qualifications in one area than another, although you think this is what you might want to do. um and be ready for those extra doors to open that you didn't even anticipate. So those are things that I like I said I wish I had known then because I think I was a little bit more had more anticipation maybe a little bit more nervousness about it when I was younger versus just like sort of going with the flow because like let's just see what's behind the next door cuz it might be something that I never even imagined and things like that. So that's why I mention this when I'm talking to kids about this this younger age pivot about trying to know what you want to do when you're 17 that seems almost ridiculous now that I look back and think about it and I ask and I find myself asking kids too like what do you want to be when you grow up? What do you want to do when you grow up? How the heck do they know? It's sort of a silly question to ask them. So more should more should be like what do you what are you interested in? um what what what kinds of things have you been exposed to or what what do you do you want to do something else or can I uh guide you to a direction that might be something that you never even thought of you know that's I think more appropriate questions honestly now that I look back at the whole thing because how the heck do you know what you want to do when you're a kid and you and I think that causes a lot of anxiety and stress with people and you don't need to have that >> true what got you interested in this in space in NASA in the things that you I wasn't really a straight shot. So, it wasn't what I wanted to do when I was a kid. Um, even when I was a pilot, I really wasn't a helicopter pilot. It wasn't the first thing on my list. It wasn't until later that I got exposed to it. So, that's why I say like when I was just mentioning like for if I'm talking to a kid like how can I expose you to something else like like um just take a look at you know the spa space program, take a look at aviation those are my backgrounds, right? take a look at diving or you know expose them to some other person adult that has done something different um just so they get an idea of things that are out there. Um anyway, it wasn't until I met somebody who had gone to space, had gone to Johnson Space Center, and then I was like, "Wow, this job looks like fun." And some of those people were my friends um that I had known as a test pilot. So I trusted their opinion also. Uh so getting to know more and more people um who are in the jobs that potentially you might like is a good idea. So like if I I had not really talked to a veterinarian beside for when I went to the vet with my dog. So [laughter] probably I should have done like some type of internship somewhere with a veterinarian to find out if I really like that but I hadn't didn't do that. >> True. So but let's say you got interested in it but before you enter I'm assuming like before you enter a rocket they would test you in some way right maybe mentally physically there would be some kind of training going on. >> Oh absolutely. when you first get to uh become an astronaut, wherever you're going to be an astronaut, if it's at, you know, an American astronaut at Johnson Space Center, European in Cologne or uh you know, Japanese in at JAXA or if you're going to be uh like um Shukla and and and do it like an Axiom flight, you're going to be tested one way or the other here or uh during the process to one become an astronaut and then two and you're on your journey to get trained to be ready to go. So there's testing all the way along the way. So that's um sometimes intimidating, right? And going back to the insecurities a little bit. That's sort of like, wow, I've never learned how to do this before. I don't know if I know how to do robotic move the you know, operate the robotic arm or um you know, get ready for a spacew walk. How am I going to learn how to do this? And you know, you find the mentors, the people who have done it before. Same all the way back. It's it's full circle like it's like [laughter] having you know talking to a kid about something that they might want to do and find out as much as you can and learn as much as you can and and study and and figure it all out and actually if you have to studying means also like for spacew walks work out right because it's it's physically demanding. So you know what you need to do the the background for each of those things and do the best that you can. >> Is there any psychological screening that you go through? Oh yeah. Yeah, that there is definitely some uh testing like just on paper testing. I'm not really sure what all that indicates, but there is some of that and maybe it's just to annoy you because you have to take a lot of you do a lot of written tests. I don't know what it's for exactly, but then there's um parts where we are looking at astronauts um together as they're getting interviewed, giving them a problem that's very hard to solve and seeing how they do that. And that's not just like a a paper problem like a you know like take this whatever this table and move it over this bridge and around this water and put it there and and put people in groups and see who naturally falls out as a leader who naturally you know adds to the team. So we want to make sure we have team players because none of this is done by ourselves. >> Yeah. >> Um and then we also do along the path when you're getting trained during the time for that you're waiting we go to national outdoor leadership school. So, you learn a little bit about yourself um as well as other people cuz you're it's taking you away out of the scenario to some place. Maybe you're backpacking, maybe you're doing rafting or something where you're in an uncomfortable situation. You're not sleeping in your own bed. You're sleeping in a tent. You're making your own food. Uh you're going to the bathroom in weird places. You know, getting your all getting you sort of ready for um working as a team and then finding out where your hot spots are, where your points are that that make you uncomfortable. Um I'm I like uh organizing, you know, my stuff. You know, everybody has their little nest whenever they're have the things that they have. And when somebody doesn't and their stuff's all over the place, it a little bit drives me crazy. And I so I know that about myself. So I know when I might encounter a crew mate that um has stuff like all over the place that might it might cause me anxiety, but that's my problem and I have to deal with that. So does that make sense? So you understand more about yourself because you can't change other people. >> What was the most difficult part for you? The most difficult part >> of the training >> of training um uh I get nervous about tests. Um I think it's it's more like just when you have to do rote memorization. I think that's what um I was sort of well I was a lot insecure about if you want to go back to that. Well, during my college academics, um, I I struggled. I did really well in high school. So, I had a base because I had went to a really good high school in our public high schools. Um, but academics in college were hard for me. Just taking tests were hard. Understanding, >> you know, I don't know, whatever it written tests are hard. So, that carries that's carried through my whole life. So, whenever I have a written test, um I I can feel that I get a little bit nervous about it. Um actually doing something I don't get nervous about. Like if I have to just go do something, it doesn't bother me. Like I just I've trained, I've done it like spacew walk stuff, robotic stuff doesn't make me nervous. I just sort of put the things together logically in my head and I can do the task. But memorizing things and writing stuff down, that's that's not that's the tough part. That's tough for me. [laughter] >> But what happens like is it not tough when five thrusts are failing? You're like in middle of situation where it's like chaotic. You don't know what's going to happen. >> Um I think you know like >> isn't that tough like you have to compartmentalize that particular moment. compartmentalization is is something that we've trained to do quite a bit like just with our military training as a military pilot because you can only um fix one thing at a time and you have to just know your systems well enough to understand what capabilities you have and how you're going to work with those capabilities. So, as the thrusters were were failing, yes, this is a bad situation. Butch and I looked at each other and we're like, "Oh, this is not so good." Um, but we knew what we needed to do. we needed, what we really needed to do was dock to the space station because we didn't know >> how our spacecraft would react if we were doing other maneuvers at that point in time. So that was the biggest thing. And I think I mean just like the movie The Martian. >> Mhm. >> If you look at how he solved problems, it's like one little bite at a time. When you have a big problem, you can't you can't deal with it, right? It's too much. It's overwhelming. I think just in life [clears throat] that happens too. Sometimes you like, I don't know, if you're um want to change something at your house, sometimes the project looks too big and you just have to take one little bite at a time. Okay, I'm just going to start with painting or I'm just going to start uh you know with picking out something that I have to add to my house. Same thing happens with these big problems, right? With thrusters like, okay, we we can't go outside and fix them. So we have to deal we have to deal with what we have and we have to just handle this situation and um we didn't start thinking about at least I didn't think start thinking about how we are going to come home. I thought like let's just focus on docking and everything because there's many parts of all of that uh and make sure that is all squared away. If that doesn't happen then we'll work on the next thing. So you solve things one piece at a time. I think that's how you solve big problems. But is there any mental technique that helps you keep calm during the time of chaos? Is there some kind of breath work that you do? Is it some kind of visualization technique? Something that you do or you're just trained yourself so much that you don't care. Like it just comes naturally. >> I think it comes naturally at this point honestly. Um I we've all been in situations flying aircraft that something doesn't work quite right and you just sort of have to figure it out and get it on the ground as when you can. I mean, I had my own little aircraft and that situation happened at one point in time when the winds picked up quite a bit and I had to just sort of figure out like, okay, we're not going to land here. We're not going to land here. We're not we're going to land here. But at some point in time, we have to land. We're running out of gas. [laughter] So, so, um, you know, you have to make that situation happen, right? Same thing with spacew walks, too. Like, you know, something might not go well right from the get-go, but doesn't mean you you stop and you just don't do anything. On my first spacew walk, I lost a camera. You know, you just can't you can't just sit there and be sad about these things. You just have to move on and and pick it the pieces up and just go with what you have. And the same thing with the thruster situation on Starlininer. And um you know, we knew that there would be a plan. We have what we practice quite a bit with our mission control team about what we call like no radio procedures, Nordo procedures. And so if we didn't weren't able to communicate with them, I think we would have already had a a plan to go into 10 meters and wait there and try to figure out how the spacecraft flew. If the spacecraft didn't fly very well, then we would back away because we wouldn't want to put the state space station in danger. >> How many situations do you plan for before you go? >> Oh gosh, hundreds. Um, and that's what all that training is for. So people sometimes say like, why do you have to train for two years for a launch of a spacecraft? because we go through with our control team all of the different things that not us only them all of them think of hey what if this failed what if that failed and what's the probability of this and that happening so people have talked through all of that as much as they can so it was interesting actually I was just uh talking to somebody about an electric airplane I'm like what kind of failures do you have there because usually when you're thinking about failures of something mechanical like your car there's oil there's gas there's mechanical parts. So if it's an electric vehicle, what problems do you have there? So batteries obviously. So it's a whole different, you know, every every mechanical thing has some some type of problems and so you just got to be creative in the way you think about uh the failures. >> Has it ever happened that you've trained for everything and still something new has happened? Oh, the thruster failure obviously [laughter] was you know we've trained for failure uh you know thruster problems and we've actually flown the simulator with one or two thrusters uh not working and of course the controls are sloppy. So five was a big deal and and actually went against some of our flight rules about how we were going to operate the spacecraft. And so um so that's when the control team came into play and then they turned off some of the um monitoring systems as well as restarted the engines. And that way we were able to at least get controllability, make sure we had controllability in all six axis cuz we lost in one. Um, and then we were able bypassing some flight rules because they usually say that it has to be redundant. Uh, we we went in and tried to dock and were successful. So that was great. >> Has it ever happened that some astronaut has has like broken psychologically like at one point they've just maybe they were not able to take it. No, I I mean I think the training is good enough that we um we make sure we we send everybody up that's has that those tools in their tool belt, they'll be okay. I mean, everybody understands stress a little bit different and like I said, that's why we do some of that national outdoor leadership school. So, you can understand that and you can see that when you're with your other crew mates. Um you know, some people like some time by themselves, some people are very chatty, you know, when they get stressed out. Um, so there's it it's going to happen. Everyone's going to it's going to happen at some point in time. So, um, to a degree though, everybody's in a box, in a controllable box, you know. So, >> have you cried in space? >> Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. I miss people and I missed my dog. So, of course, I cried, you know, that Yeah, absolutely. There's there's been goods and bads. I mean, and also like for for really good things that have happened, too. Um, a friend of mine, her mom was sick while we were in space and um, just having those conversations, you know, that's just, you know, your your friends, your colleagues, if someone told you you, you know, you're their parent was sick and they having some problems and, you know, that that's hard to deal with. And so, you're you're helping somebody else and you're um, just being a friend, a shoulder that somebody can like lean on. And the you know the same thing happens like I get frustrated with something and I'm talking to my one of the crew mates up there about something um or something that's happening at home. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. Everybody everyone has everyone goes through normal emotions here as as in there. Yeah. >> So what happens when you cry in space? Your tears don't fall. [laughter] [gasps] >> Yeah. Everything water all around you gets just sort of baldled up on you. Um, same with like when you're working out, you get super sweaty because stuff just gets like too much water everywhere. [laughter] So, you need a couple tissues. >> So, like you just start crying like is it difficult? Is it like just stuck? >> It just will just make your eyes very watery. Like really watery. [laughter] You got to get rid of that though. So, you can see [laughter] >> you'll be like a fish in an aquarium. I I have to ask you a weird question like what what's the worst part about using a bathroom in space? >> Oh gosh, so much bad about it. The grav no gravity assist. And so uh you uh for me I [laughter] you know first of all just absolutely just being able to do it first the first thing right because you need to get rid of everything at some point in time get rid of all that bad stuff. So you have to go to the bathroom. Um, so doing it first of all, um, get getting over the fear of like going cuz you know it's not going to fall down. So it's like, okay, you just got to go and turn the hose on and it will it'll take it away and don't worry about it. So then and then the number two part that's also adds a your body's not used to it. So you have to sort of get your body used to those muscles to push everything out the right way. Um, and then and then it's just sort of I wait I wait till I'm ready to go and then I can just go. [laughter] I think that takes care of it. That takes care of all the the wishy-washy about it. If you can't really you have to commit. You have to just get in there and just go. [laughter] >> You also said I was reading somewhere you said that people fart a lot up there. >> Oh yeah. Yeah. There's a lot. And I don't know why exactly but it just happens. Everybody does because if it's the preservatives in the food or something like that. I'm not really sure why, but everybody everybody does. And I think after a while potentially people get used to it and it seems like it happens a little less for some people, but sometimes for other people it just keeps going on. It's terrible. [laughter] >> And then you have to live up in that space for like days and it smells bad. >> No, it it'll move. It'll move. We have we have a pretty good ventilation system. So stuff starts to move around pretty quick. But if you if somebody farted [laughter] and you you're like right behind them flying through the module, you're going to fly right through it. >> How does space smell like? >> Uh it smells like us. [laughter] Smells like the food that we eat and it smells like us. [laughter] But you know like interestingly enough I think it's not that bad because like we had at some periods of time 12 people on the space station when generally seven um and people are all working out people are all eating and it to me it didn't didn't smell that bad at all. I mean it was just sometimes a little stronger when some stronger types of food uh I eventually got Indian food for example so you could smell that. um some things with garlic, you know, obviously you could smell that. Um I I actually really like the smell of garlic, so it's for me it was fine. Sometimes fish because we had uh um like a lot of salmon or tuna fish and so that's sticks around for a little bit longer maybe, but it all ends up dissipating. >> So that that smell, what about the sound? Because ISS it caks and moans, right? like it just you can hear that sound almost all the time. >> Um some areas it it also depends on what the sunlight what how our orbit is in comparison to the sun. So sometimes uh when we're getting heated up quite a bit there's some areas which sort the metal sort of just pops and bends a little bit and then that was reported obviously somebody was like ah what happened and so then um then we realized what the situation is. So whenever there's like a lot of sun on these parts are called a pressurized mating adapter cuz they're black on the outside. If you look at different parts of the space station, you'll see most of it's silver which is sort of reflective. Um but some of it is um this black part and that's the part that gets really hot and makes those creeks and moans um and bumps. Uh other things beside for that are some of the ventilation and you can hear stuff kick on, start up and and shut down. That happens periodically. Obviously, you can find it on the, you know, if you go into the uh computer page where it has the system that has that specific system, you'll probably see what happens. Have you heard any scary sound? Like what's the scariest sound you've heard? [laughter] I'm just like childlike curious right now at this point. >> Yeah. But >> when you were stuck like for 286 days, what's the most scariest sound you heard? >> Um gosh, I'm trying to think of something. Um I think valves moving, closing, and opening. I'm I'm I don't know. I'm I I am used to the space station. The space station is sort of like a second [clears throat] home. So, uh, my first time up there, I'm looking at it up on the wall. That's why I'm looking. I'm trying to think of what [laughter] was, uh, what was scary. But my first time there when I was in the, uh, forward part of the space station living there by myself with my two other Russian colleagues in the way back. Yeah, I got scared a little bit because first time I'm like very hyper sensitive to all of these switching of pumps and fans and noises. one antenna out right outside our former there was a crew quarters there uh would turn every now and the night or I think it was a camera actually and sometimes the folks in mission control would turn it so they could see stuff and it was like right outside the window so we could hear inside um so I was asking a lot of questions during that flight like what's that what's that what's that but now that you I've lived there for a long time I feel like I know most of the things that are happening or I can figure it out like okay that that sounds like a motor. That sounds like a valve. So that must be coming from over here. So this is this. So you know it's just like as though you've like again lived at your house for a long time. So you get used to like when the furnace kicks on or something and you know [laughter] like oh yeah that's happening again. >> But when but for the first time you must have heard at that time. Did it scare you? the first time it did because particularly um when I was the like I said the only person living in that part of the space station and my other American counterpart had gone home and you know this is my responsibility was this part of the space station. I was like uhoh what what is that? What is that? What is that? So I ended calling the ground a couple times probably in the in that time frame um if I remember correctly just sort of is that normal? Is that normal? And they were like yes yes don't worry about it. [laughter] Was there any point where in all your time in in space, was there any point where you heard some sound and you're like, "Oh, this is it." Like this like you froze for a moment and like you got scared? >> No. Um I I wouldn't say that. I think we were all a little on edge one in this latest flight when we had a satellite below us in orbit um explode or disintegrate or something and then there was a bit of a debris field and so we were woken up in the middle of the night to all go to our own spacecraft. It's called safe haven um because the space they weren't sure whether or not the debris would hit the space station. So, we had about 45 minutes. And the funny part about that is we all met at the bathroom essentially one last time to go to the bathroom on the, as I call it, the big hotel in space because the spacecraft are sort of like a little camper. So, they don't have really good bathrooms on the spacecraft. And so, it was like, you know, take advantage of, okay, I've got 45 minutes. What am I going to do? I'm going to go to the bathroom. I'm going to get some water, say hug my friends, say goodbye. Um, that was a little bit surreal situation, I think. Not because of the bathroom. The bathroom was just sort of funny. But um as we were leaving uh three spacecraft that have human beings that are going to return to Earth. So one spacecraft's going to go and land in the ocean, one's going to land around them in the United States, one's going to land in the desert in Kazakhstan, one's going to land in the desert um in the United States. And we all sort of hugged each other and we're like, "Hopefully I'll see you on Earth." [laughter] You know, that was a little bit weird. Um, and I wasn't necessarily scared, just sort of, you know, it made me stop for a moment and go like, "Wow, this is this would be bad if we all had to leave and then we leave the space station." We had some things we had to do to make sure the space station was in a safe configuration as much as possible. Closing hatches, getting things ready. Um, so we didn't have time too much time to sit around and think about it. But for it for a second that flashed through my mind as we were all there by the bathroom and we're giving each other a couple little hugs, saying goodbye. So that was weird. That was uh that a little unsettling I guess. >> So you said this this time this flight the last one was pretty pretty messed up right when you got stuck at you when you got stuck for 286 days. >> Um I don't know if it I would say messed up is the right word. I would say it was a little bit unpredictable in the beginning like that whole summer was like like unfortunately that was the hardest part. I think the beginning part uh for once after we launched and then we got to the space station. We knew we weren't going to come home as planned but there was a lot of people on the ground who were still working to we're going to get home. We're going to come home tomorrow. We're going to come home tomorrow. We're going to come home tomorrow. like wait a minute we all have to understand what the problem is and understand what the fix is and all that kind of stuff but of course NASA doesn't want to miss an opportunity so they still had a lot of people turned on to keep working through all this so that so that meant there was questions coming to up to us and we were answering questions back and forth um when when it seemed like the probability was pretty slim that we'd coming back in the next you know two weeks or month um we really needed to get some answers to what happened and understand that problem and see if there was an adequate fix before we would get back in that spacecraft. So that whole time frame, you know, it's hard to have patience, right? I think all of us have to work on that. They say patience is a virtue and it's very true because it's sort of like when something uncontrollable is happening. You just had to have to sort of wait until the appropriate answer is provided. That's hard because you sort of want to go, how's it going down there? [laughter] How's it going? Have you have you solved the problem yet? you know, like what what is the answer? Do we know yet? And you you sort of have to give people some time. So, uh we tried our best. I think we were sort of annoying at some points in time and asking the questions. Um and try and it's it's hard when you're up in space. It's like, uh during COVID when we had Zoom calls, it was really hard to really, you know, get to the bottom of some things, right? Because you had to just you couldn't see somebody. You couldn't go and put your hands on something. You're not right there. And that's what it's sort of like all the time on the space station. We aren't there. I'm not seeing the test setup. I I don't know what all the parameters are. I listen to the the meetings, but you know how it is in Zoom calls, right? Sometimes your your mind is doing something else when you should come back to what's going on, right? So, it's a little bit it was hard to really be part of the the solution process. It was easy to ask questions, but it's hard to be part of the process. And so, that that was a little frustrating. Uh I think the not so frustrating part uh at first but then became frustrating was uh my family. I think they were wonderful at first like oh you know just come home be safe. It's all that it's all good you know like you know you're going to be home soon you know you'll be home by the falls it's all good you know. So then I think the hard harder part of course is like turning that and telling folks that you're not going to be home for a little longer. And so um you know at the by the end I think we both Butch and I before even the decision was made we had an idea that this is not going to happen. And we knew the next time we'd come home is with the next spacecraft. I mean this is this is the process we've been living for a long time. We know that every six months there's a spacecraft that goes up and there's a spacecraft that comes home >> and they're not going to change that. It's very expensive. It's a it's a contract. It's a you know it's the production of the spacecraft. So that's how it's going to go. So as the sum summer summer went on and it was getting clear that we probably weren't going to come home. Um we knew it would be six more months. So that's when like making those phone calls like like around the you know August time frame like uh I'm not coming home for a little while. We'll see you next year. [laughter] But um but I I think I'm very very fortunate. My family was like hey it's okay. You know don't worry about it. Have a good time. come home on a safe spacecraft. And uh I wrote journals on my first two missions and I started it started it while we were up there for the summer and my sister's like, "Just keep writing the journals cuz they're fun to read." I'm like, "Oh, [laughter] okay." And you know, and it's not just fun, it's um I have a a group of people that I sent those to. So, it it was able I was able to take a lot of people along on the journey with me and show them through my uh photographs, not just mine, but my crew mates photographs and what we were doing up there, what it's like to live in work in space. And, you know, the aperture gets widened when you have time to do that. So, I had I had a lot of people following along with me and uh you know, because I was doing that, a lot of support from friends and family. So, that was pretty awesome. So that first time when you [snorts] when you got this feeling that hey maybe you're not going home and you're definitely you're asking questions to the ground support you're asking questions but when you're alone you're not asking questions and you're impatient what going what's going on in your head like now you know you're not going to go home for a while. >> Oh yeah. So I mean right from the beginning anyway um we had things to do for our spacecraft while it stuck to the space station. Those test points just uh working. So we did we just kept that whole process, right? What we had already planned to do for the those next 10 days and we had a little extra time. So we're doing some little extra tests. So that was great. And then after that, you know, we had some free time essentially, Butch and I, of course, we had we worked out. So it's how do we help? How do I be part of the team? You know, I need to occupy my time with that type of stuff. I like doing that. I'm I'm not gonna sit around and feel sorry for myself. It's like, hey, there's 12 of us up here. We're going through a lot of food. How about if I transfer the food and put it in the right place? How about if I work on the toilet because we're going through the toilet supplies faster than than we should. So, how can I help out and just help the team? The things that are like um you know, standard things that you have to do like take the trash out, you know, like all the things that we normally do here at home. There's there's specific things we do that we train for. Then there's things that we've uh that you just have to do on a routine basis. So, just try to jump in and help the team as much as possible. >> You don't give yourself time. Just just keep yourself occupied all the time. >> I I do generally try I I don't like to hang out. Just hang out. That's sort of silly. Specifically in space there's there's a lot of things to do. It's like never a dull moment. And then um once it was sort of not not even then I think just in general if there was free time and somebody was working on an experiment sometimes your hands are in a glove box and you know then you need to get something to do something. You got to take your hands out of the glove box. it's a little bit of a production or you have uh protective equipment on because you're working on something that's a little bit dangerous and so then you're trying to make a phone call that's hard because you have to undo everything and call back to the ground uh you know get everything off of you. So when when for me it was like, "Oh, if that person's working on the experiment, how about if I'm I'm your right-hand man. If you need something, just tell me. I'll go go over here and get it for you." Or, you know, you're working on the toilet with all that stuff on. I'll make the calls down to the ground and then we could work through all these things more efficiently. So there's all of that to do too, just to just to help out the team. I mean, and that's what we're trained to do, you know, just to help out and that makes the that that makes time go by for one thing. [laughter] It's not that time you really want time to go by, but that also just helps everybody out. And of course, the cool thing that we did, well, we I think we uh not not me in particular, but my crew mates were really um great photographers. [snorts] And so Butch and Dawn, they ended up spending time like setting up different cameras to take some amazing time lapses and stuff like that, too. So, there's always something to do while you're up there. >> Was there a night where you lost hope? >> No. Never. No. No. No. No, that's so funny that that's a question. It is interesting that people said like and I understand I guess I could understand why just because of the press and the narrative that was going on that we were stuck in space. >> Um I I really wasn't scared because I knew that there was hundreds of people if not thousands that are working on trying to figure out one what the problem is, two can we fix it, and three how do we get back? So all of that was going on down on the ground. I know that was all happening. Not even for one like moment you felt like maybe this is it. I'm not going home. >> No. Um we actually even before uh our spacecraft left, we designed some sort of makeshift seats on the on the Dragon that was there. So we had planned seats in case something happened, in case we had another safe haven or something that we had to get in our spacecraft because of something that happened that was out of our control. Um we actually had a seat in a spacecraft. It wasn't a great seat. It did wasn't didn't have uh you know air breathing connections in a space suit, but we did still have a seat. So, I mean, there's always there's always something. There's we we always plan on something. Those seats needed to be completed. Those seats needed to be completed before we told Starliner to leave. >> Wow. >> Yeah. [snorts] >> Never. That's incredible. No, I mean I have a lot of >> because like from here down here like all the press, all the news, all the stuff that we read, >> it it looked like like you're stuck like you're there's no hope for you to come back. There's NASA and Boeing fighting. They're like people just arguing [laughter] there stuff going on >> and there are thousands of people making content on you and like it just >> it felt pretty scary and like genuinely I've seen so much content where people were worried. >> Everybody was wondering. >> Yeah. Yeah. So I I like I said, I understand why people would have that impression just because of what the narrative that was going on and the the the miscommunications I think back and forth. And I think u that's a little potentially unfortunate. Uh >> but did your family ever feel like? >> No. No. That's because we were in touch all the time. >> Like I >> you spoke to them after coming back and did they have the same feeling that >> Absolutely. You probably saw my mom at some point in time on the news and um she was she was not worried cuz I mean I'm talking to her. I'm telling her that it's going to be okay. you know, it's not not something they need to worry about. The the the sort of what it what I don't want to call it like really makeshift, but the the the seats in the dragon, that wasn't a great scenario. And um we we have we talked about that and there was a little bit uh folks were not ready for that scenario like uhoh like what now we have to accommodate two more people in this dragon in case there's a problem. How do we do it? people came up with some great Apollo 13 solutions with these makeshift seats and stuff, but this is not the professional right way to do it. And so now we actually have a seat kit. >> So if somebody um from another spacecraft needs to transfer over to this one, they'll be able to do that with a better seat and we'll be able actually have extra space suits. So we'll be able to do that. probably have uh we're working on I'm not sure the status of it, but like being able to connect the air um with another seat with a T like a like a Y cable. So, all of those are great lessons learned cuz that was I think the worst part. That wasn't a great platform to land. >> Um somebody might have, you know, >> we did our best that we could do. We actually had a medical doctor who had a lot of uh experience in this in this um setup. So he did his best as he can to try to come up with seats, but that wasn't optimal. >> It's not really the right way to do stuff. So, um, like I said, that was that was the most uncomfortable when we were in those seats like I don't really want to come home like this. [laughter] >> But, um, but the probability, right, that that something would hit the space station after we had already had something happen was was pretty low. Um, so in my estimation, we we all take risks. >> Yeah, >> we're in this business because it's risky. um not because but as as a byproduct of this business it's risky when you launch on a rocket uh when you're in space and coming home you you accept some of those risks um so this was not out of the box I would say >> you know when you're up there you you go through multiple sunrises and sunsets in a day right I think 16 >> yeah 16 sunrises and 16 sunsets in 24 hours some days would feel like very short some days would be very long right >> which one was the longest day for you >> so when you're on an exp a deployment or an expedition. I think time changes just in your head, right? Obviously, it 
