France invented a lot of early technologies in the world. But today if you look the scenario the largest technology companies in the world are either American or Chinese. Many of them are led by Indian origin CEOs. Where did France lack? >> I I I think the missing point is first scale not just for the French but for all the Europeans. Second capital and the third point we have to find more appetite for risk. >> France has been an all-weather friend for India. >> The question is no longer whether India innovates. The question is who will innovate with India and France is the uni clear answer. JO >> do you think this is going to be an example for the world that now the new world order is about multipolarity? Do you think India and France are setting an example? >> French president Emanuel Macron is the chief guest. >> French president Emanuel Macron has been invited as the chief guest at the public day. >> We develop during the past few years a series of cooperations and partnerships in different sectors with your country. >> I I really believe that when we team up we deliver. Second, we don't want to be dependent on one of the two big power. We want to have good relation with the US and China. We have different relationship by the way with both of them between India and France and we are supporter of this approach. India leapfrogged in technology. our Aadhaar, UPI, TG locker, things like this be created and got so many people in the system, right? If you have to bet on one technology for France, which will be your moonshot for 2035, >> quantum computer will be where we we can take the lead and have a leadership. >> Quantum computer, >> quantum technology. >> What on earth is a quantum computer? >> Whichever nation first develops a practical [music] quantum computer will have a tremendous advantage. quantum supremacy >> is is the work happening in the back end like >> yeah I think so because we have a unique mathematicians new capacities and a lot of very performing startups [music] and labs >> I saw that you announced about €109 billion one year ago for the AI infrastructure for the technology to lead it forward but here's a question out of that 50 billion euro is coming from UAE so money is foreign funded infrastructure is going to be largely owned by UAE. The technology and intelligence is coming from America and China. What's going to be sovereign about this when it's actually collaboration of the world not just Europe? If some founder is watching this or a student who's 22 year old is watching this, they want to come to France then what does France offer which today a US and UK doesn't offer for the young startup founders or the [music] people who want to build for the future. >> A unique ecosystem. First, I want to convey the message to your your students, Indian students. If you come to France, you can get access to the the best quality universities and high schools. Second, the language is clearly is English. And I I really believe that France provides the unique mix of large companies, a lot of institutions, and at the same time the most vibrant startups innovation ecosystem in Europe. Donald Trump shared your private messages. >> Private message meant for diplomacy [music] has exploded into a public political storm. >> He threatened to put 200% tariff on you. You've called this administration anti- Europe. Does this convey something about American leadership today? Should the world be scared? >> I I really believe that respect is is part of the leadership. You can share ideas or not? You can disagree, but you have to do it in a respectful way within democracies as well. This is why I've always been extremely committed to fight against any sort of hatred speech or violence in our societies because when you have democracy, you have the right to change your leadership. You decide who will take the law and pass the law on your behalf. So no need to be violent >> and disrespectful. But me and my team, we're trying really hard and trying all our best to make sure that India's voice reaches at the world stage. And for that I have a favor to ask from you. If you have ever gotten value from this channel, please subscribe to our channel. It's free and it takes only 1 second because the more you subscribe, the more our chances get to get the kind of guest which we have today on our show. Our today's guest is president of French Republic Emanuel Macarron. It's his first ever podcast in the world. this for the first time it's happening on a show on figuring out we have spoken about India and France relationship we have spoken about his relationship with America his relationship with world leaders we've spoken about what is Europe trying to do differently what does it mean for India how is he making sure that India not only becomes a trade partner but a strategic partner in the world which is heading towards multipolarity how do we challenge the global world order and do we even challenge or no? All these questions have been answered by the French president in today's podcast. Beyond the honor, we see this as a responsibility because when someone like President Macarron sits down with us, it's an opportunity to talk about India, what we are getting right, where we are heading and what the world needs to understand about India, about us right now so that we can show the world where India stands and what are we doing and get the presidents and global leaders perspective on it as well. So, thank you so much for being part of this journey and for the audio experience of this podcast. Please follow us on Spotify. But thank you so much to for doing this and agreeing to do your first podcast with us. It's a pleasure. >> This is mine. Thank you for being here. >> Thank you. >> I'm happy to be in Mumbai with you. >> Tell me before we start actually for 0 01% people who don't know who you are and they're watching you for the first time. They have no clue. What would you tell them about yourself in next 30 seconds? Who you are and what you do? I'm French guy [gasps and laughter] here in Mumbai because I am invited invited by your prime minister and happy to be here by the way and um involved in a in a in a very peculiar job and [laughter] for for the past few years and um full of appetite and enthusiasm especially for other culture. >> Lovely. And you're also an enthusiast. I saw that yesterday that you're the guy who loves breaking protocol and running around the street to jog, right? >> Exactly. [clears throat] We joged yesterday morning. >> Yeah. How was that experience? >> Oh, wonderful. >> It was a little bit hectic. Okay. >> Because of uh I mean the all all the traffic in the city, but [snorts] it was great and I mean it was fun first to exercise and second to to have the interactions without too much security. you always have a little bit security but when it's uh I would say unexpected and non-organized you can indeed break the protocol. So early in the morning I I went to jog and uh and later in the evening I went to your to the station to as well see your beautiful architecture and not just architecture but this uh the city. >> Yeah. Okay. Let's dive into the technology part because I love what you're doing these days. I went through so many of your speeches and the reason that you're here, you know, I was reading a lot of history and I I found out that France invented a lot of early technologies in the world, right? But today, if you look the scenario, the largest technology companies in the world are either American or Chinese. Many of them are led by Indian Indian origin CEOs. What do you think? Where did France lack? Like what happened? Is it the culture? Is it the taxes? Or is it something about the way Europe thinks about failure and risk? >> A mix of that probably. But you're right to say that uh um we've had a lot of um great researchers, scientists. uh we invented a lot of uh a lot of big innovation even if science is a is a global approach and cooperation between academics and researchers all over the world is what makes sense and not just one country but we we do have this this culture of uh uh research invention entrepreneurship as well as always uh remind people that entrepreneur is a French word and uh and it was taken by the English language but entrepreneur is a French world [gasps] and and and we we are still extremely active. If you take in Europe probably the two main ecosystem in terms of innovation startups AI, quantum are are France and UK uh largely heard of the others and uh and if you take um math and a lot of um a lot of disciplines we we are still in very in a very good position. But it's true that when you when you look at the um the tech sector, it's largely driven by the US the I mean this big seven companies and and and the Chinese companies. Why? First you have a question of scale. I I really believe that uh Europe is the right approach and um still in the digital sector but in a lot of sectors we are too much fragmented. So I I I think the missing point is first scale not just for the French but for all the Europeans. So we have to finalize to strengthen our our single market to be sure that your domestic market is a 450 million and abhabitance market meaning Europe and not just France. Second capital in the US you have a lot of capital a lot of deep pockets. So they invest a lot of money. >> Mhm. And um and uh the paradox is that in Europe you have a lot of savings much more than in the US. But this saving is not properly invested because of too much um uh I mean too many regulation in the bank and insurance sector and the structure of our of our financing system which is unadapted to to uh the tech industry because we are this the savings are are largely channeled towards the bond market or they they go outside Europe >> to search profitability. And the third point [snorts] uh you mentioned it and I I I fully agree with you is probably um we have to find um more more appetite for risk >> more appetite for risk >> should be more much more risk taker so scale money and risk takingaking uh mindset. So you sort of are addressing these things in multiple of your speeches and conversations. I saw that you announced about € 109 billion >> one year ago. >> One year ago for the AI infrastructure for the technology to lead it forward, right? But here's a question that you talk about scale, you talk about risk and you talk about investments out of that almost hundred billion euros. 50 billion euro is coming from UAE right then. So money is foreign funded infrastructure is going to be largely owned by UAE. The technology and intelligence is coming from America and China. And you're talking about Europe and building sovereign Europe AI. What's going to be sovereign about this when it's just it's actually collaboration of the world not just Europe? >> This is a very good question. In fact, um one year ago we we announced this 109 billion euro investment uh which which is a big bunch of money and we are deploying it by the way because more than 60% is already deployed and uh and we plugged a lot of sites. It's it's in order to build data centers. Uh you're right. We speak about UAE US projects. Why? Because the technology is largely in the US. But the data center which will be deployed in France will be used as well by our own players. If you don't have a computing capacities, you cannot deploy >> and we are we there are more cash today in the Gulf and the technology for data centers in the US. But what we want to do is not to buy the solution. when we when you want to be more sovereign, more independent, you want to transfer technologies and attract foreign direct investment. This is exactly what we are doing. I created eight years ago an event called Choose France where a lot of Indian players come every year and um and this event plus all the reforms we implemented made France number one in terms of attractiveness during the past six years. >> Yeah. [snorts] And um and this is good. what we what what we what you mentioned I mean these AI data centers and all these investments are good for the European sovereignty why they are located in my country second they could be used by my by my players so it will improve my uh AI ecosystem third it will transfer a lot of these technologies and fourth it's I have the guarantee that these solutions are compliant with the European regulation >> what's the what's what's the alternative to that as I don't have the technology and the cash. It's not to make this investment and to buy elsewhere. If you buy just solutions, you buy solutions and you provide your data without any protection for your data and without any tech transfer. So I think it's a much better solution. Um the winner takes all in this market >> and the the big winners were this u this US hyperscalers. So you have to work with them but to to encourage and force sometimes them to to comply with your markets and in parallel you have to accelerate the deployment of your own solutions. If you take LLMs we have Mali which is probably the I mean the the which is definitely the best European player >> and a clear alternative of the LLM US LMS. So this is what we are doing. >> Interesting. So one more thing you would need in this is attracting talent. Yeah. >> Attracting founders from all around the world, right? And attracting students at the same time. Right now there are about 9,300 students from India and France. You want them to go to 30,000, >> right? So every founder who's watching this, you have announced Fstation in France, made it a big startup world for everyone. So if some founder is watching this or a a student who's 22 year old is watching this they want to come to France then what does France offer which today a US and UK doesn't offer for the young startup founders or the people who want to build for the future >> a unique ecosystem first I want to convey the message to your your students Indian students um if you come to France you can get access to the the best quality universities ities in high schools from poly techchnique to Paris urban from normal superior to a lot of engineer schools. Second the the language is clearly is English. So because I know that a lot of sometimes as a fact that you would be taught in in French it's totally wrong. So you you have the opportunity to have the obviously uh all these years in the in the English language but you get access as well to um uh the diversity of the language which is very important and when you are Indian you know that given the number of official language and this this diversity is a source of of uh um not just energy but creativity but you will have the best-in-class um higher schools uh English spoken professors and research access to good ecosystems and I I really believe that France provides the unique mix of a mature economy with a lot of large companies a lot of institutions and at the same time is a more vibrant uh the most vibrant startups innovation ecosystem in Europe and third >> [snorts] >> uh it's it's clearly a vibrant place in terms of creativity culture and uh and I think it's very important because when you speak about innovation never forget the place of culture, art, cinema and so on and and France is and this is one of the the link we have with with India. We are extremely strong in um in creative and cultural industries and and I think this is is a very important point and not to forget to mention um fashion. >> Yeah. and and this is a unique nexus where you where you have gastronomy, fashion, creativity, cinema, tech, entrepreneurship and uh the old institutions I would say in the same place >> and this is a unique occasion and and France is a natural entry point in the rest of Europe and um and continental Europe but this mix of uh of uh uh I would say assets is quite unique >> you know French French people and France in general definitely has something which we call here is taste. That taste is very very like the moment you talk to a French person the way they think about arts and culture and their ability to to judge fine things in life is amazing. That's that's something to be appreciated or I'm sure the world appreciates it already but it >> thank you for mentioning it. But the French taste indeed is is this capacity of um of um mixing a lot of not just competences but art in innovation and life in general. >> And this is the approach to say that life is something very special. Being together is something very special. Sharing moments and experience is something very special. And uh and in this world given the current environment uh never forget that uh the most important thing is to share unique moments and experience. True, true. Tell me apart from culture, arts, taste. Okay, we talking about technology. India leapfrogged in technology when it comes to DPI, >> our Aadhaar, UPI, EG locker, things like this. We created and escaped the 10 years of financial exclusion and actually now build got so many people in the system, right? If you have to bet on one technology for France which will be your moonshot for 2035, which technology would you bet on that the France will lead and dominate the world in? >> First let me let me say how how right you are when you mention India. I mean your country is super impressive in terms of indeed proging but uh educating people and training people. I mean today in in India you you you you train every year more engineers than in US and Europe together. >> Yeah. >> So it's I mean it's such a resource. It's unique. >> True. And it means a lot of talents, a lot of people um and on top of that you have you live frog in terms of education and competences and you you have the same appetite of anmer big emerging countries and uh you you you were right to mention payment system and UPI and I'm obsessed by that because by the way a lot of people are are super dependent on US solutions on payment. I mean it happens that in France we we do have our own solution as well with the cartau system but um it's up reach such a scale in such a few years it's very impressive it's very hard to say what the moonshop will be because you never know and especially as a president it's very hard to say it will be this one as a moot chart because it's not a way innovation function you will probably lose several times and the one uh you didn't see will will be the one to succeed. I think the most important thing is to be sure that you provide the capacities and all the opportunities for a series of of very disruptive innovation to succeed and to make sure that one of them will succeed and to accept that a lot of others will fail. [snorts] And uh and if I if I if I ac if I accepted to take the risk of your question, I would say um probably uh uh in quantum I would say uh uh quantum computer would be where we can we can we can take the lead and have a have a leadership. really is is the work happening in the back end like >> yeah I think so because we have unique mathematicians new capacities and a lot of very performing startups and labs. So I I really believe that in this field we can we can deliver and and have a moonshot. But but more more than that I I I just want to convey a very simple message. When we speak about innovation and moonshot it's it's all about taking risk and it's all about accepting to lose. >> True. And it seems to be super counterintuitive. [snorts] But if you want to think and deliver big, you have to take a lot of risks. Except by chance, you never succeed the first time. >> So if you don't accept to to fail and to start again, you will never succeed. And for me the question for innovators but it's true for countries and so on is not to have people being super successful the first time it's doesn't exist but it's to make sure that uh we have people ready to to lose eight time but try nine times. >> Yeah. [snorts] You know moving away from technology because you said it right. It's it's a mix of risk and accepting that you'll fail and yet even if you know there are five things which are popping right now you can't choose which one is going to dominate right but one thing you seem to be very certain about which is very reflective in your relationship with our country which is France has been an all-weather friend for India it's not only a good weather friend right And you can see that like when the world is again France always stood up your relationship with Prime Minister Modi has actually deepened as well and after 2018 the Indopacific announcement in the world our relationship has gotten even more stronger. Right? This kind of geopolitic certaintity and friendship is rare to see in the world. Do you think is it this is going to be an example for the world that now the new world order is about multi-polarity where things are going to be balanced in friendships and not going to be one-sided? Do you think India and France are setting an example? >> I I really believe that when we team up we deliver. We launched together with promise somebody the solar alliance initiative we delivered. We launched together during the G20 the IMAC. We are delivering and we will deliver. We decided together to deal with artificial intelligence in the global regulation or conversation. We are doing it last year in France during our action summit now in India. So I I think we we clearly delivered concrete results because it's based with all our differences because we we we we are different as countries, our civilizations, our our people. But I have indeed this great relation with your prime minister and our countries have this great relation. Why? Because we have beyond this differences, similarities, >> a taste for for precisely cultural, innovation and diversity. I would say when you speak to a French person, I mean the relationship with language with multilinguism and uh respect of Francohony is super important. When I see your prime minister, he is he speaks in Hindu and and uh and I know the diversity of your languages. It creates something very special because we don't like uniformity. Second, we don't want to be dependent on one of the two big power. >> We want to have a good relation with the US and China. We have different relationship by the way with both of them between India and France. But it was the whole rational of of the Indopacific approach meaning a third way. >> Yeah. >> Something which is I will not be confrontational with you but I don't want to be dependent on you. >> True. Let me let me build my own future in full respect and and based on that this is the fact that we really believe both India and France that democracy rule of law multilateralism delivering concrete results makes sense and we are supporter of this approach and in this world where the the rule of law is very often replaced by I would say the order of the strongest I really believe it makes sense and super attractive. >> True. >> Because you can gather a lot of a lot of people, a lot of countries, a lot of goodwill. So this is where I really believe that this approach and and our partnership is not just meaningful but has much more potential than what we see today. >> True. You know, even realizing now, >> yeah, >> that strategic autonomy is the way forward, not choosing one side. And PM Modi's brand is about choosing a strategic autonomy. We we honor the Russian friendship yet deepen relationship with US. We build a relationship with France and deal with the rest of the world. So he stood by it. Do you think your your way of thinking and like Europe's way of thinking is now also being inspired by India and PM Modi now that strategic autonomy is the way forward, not choosing sides anymore. Look, I really believe that the fact that we build this partnership and this trade agreement, this free trade agreement between Europe and and India is obviously due to this period of time where there is increasing skepticism or frustration visa v given the recent attitude and uh and a lot of Europeans now see that India is the biggest place where we can build this new partnership. >> [snorts] >> But I really believe as well that um I I advocated 9 years ago a more sovereign uh Europe. I pushed this uh um this approach of a strategic odonomy of the Europeans. Some colleagues did follow me and wanted to cooperate. Some of those were super skeptical saying okay this is a French idea it will never work. And some of those were still in the in the certainty that the relationship with the US is something with which will never change and that uh this is a geopolitical umbrella and and a strong alliance which will always deliver. I mean all this approach collapsed. >> Yeah. >> And uh and not to say that we want to be confrontational with the US. I mean the more intense the relation could be the more happier I will be. But having an ally, having a friend doesn't mean that you're dependent on your French. >> And and I I really believe that when when a lot of Europeans see that this approach is adopted by a country like India, it gives them more more trust and uh as they accept to be probably a little bit bolder. So I I really believe on on the potential of this relation as well because it's it will increase what we want to do together. meaning being more independent and once once again what do we want to be more independent first because we are obsessed by this sovereign approach. What does it mean sovereign? Our fellow citizen decide for themselves. If you are dependent technologically or regarding defense issues, you cannot guarantee your fellow citizens that they will decide. So in certain way it's a bias in the democracy because I ask you to vote but you will never decide if you go this way or this way because you have no choice. >> True. So uh the strategic autonomy is super important when you are a strong democracy and second because we are both of us I mean India and France very much attached to diversity as I mentioned and the strength of this diversity and we don't want to be part of a big uniformity >> but you know we believe we believe in this approach but recently like Donald Trump shared your private messages like WhatsApp right He threatened to put 200% tariff on you. You have called this administration anti- Europe. And there a lot of like tassel. >> What do you think? What does it tell the world that one of the most powerful people in the world is sharing messages publicly? Like do you think that does this convey something about American leadership today? Should the world be scared? I mean I I I let you judge and your [snorts] question means by itself something. I I really believe that respect is is part of the leadership and uh and we have to provide respect to each other. You can share ideas or not. You can disagree but you you you have to do it in a respectful way between leaders but within democracies as well. This is why I I've always been extremely committed to to fight against any any sort of hatred speech or violence in our societies because when you have democracy, you have the right to change your leadership. You you decide who will take the law and pass the law on your behalf. So no need to be uh >> to be violent >> and disrespectful. But respect was built and everything which goes with the civilization process was built years after years, decade after decades in order to improve ourselves and uh and it's a little bit surprising I I really believe for people to see leaders going backward. >> Yeah. >> And it's not the right message. >> True. You know, do you think that the dollar dominance is ending? Because India is now dealing in rupees, China is pushing yuan, you talk about the energy trades in euros. Do you think the dollar dominance in the world is now going to end? >> I would be super careful. Today the dollar is clearly dominating the world. I really believe that I strongly believe in the in a multipolar order and I will do whatever I can to strengthen the the international role of Euro. What does what does it mean? We have to be more innovative. We have to be more competitive. We have to invest much more. We have to on top of the trade agreements we sign to sign swap lines to have euro as a as the exchange currency and we have to make sure that the euro uh is is seen by the the key central bankers of this world as an alternative to the dollar meaning we have to provide more euro as a safe and liquid asset. We have everything to succeed in this strategy and it will be one of the element >> of a more sovereign Europe and uh and a more independent Europe. I really believe it's possible. We have a window of opportunity but it would be wrong to say that it's the case today. It's to be delivered and I really hope we will be able to do so. >> Interesting. You know, you you talk about window of opportunity and that gets me to my last question that your term will eventually end. You might be able to take this window of opportunity or you might not be, right? You're deepening ties with India. You're building you're uniting Europe way more than ever. You have led France through uncertain times. You've been the youngest president in French history. You've done it all. But even after all these achievements this window of opportunity might you might be able to achieve it or not but that is not certain but what is certain is your term will end right. What scares you about the world right now after your term ends? What is going to be the most worry like worryful thought for you? And what about the world gives you a lot of optimism after that your tomats? >> Look um what provides me a lot of optimism is the fact that more and more people are are well educated. Yeah, >> I really believe we have to do much more again because still you have 100 millions of inhabitants in this continent in Africa where we have to improve the level of education to to allow them to have more opportunities. But it never existed to have such a world where so so many billions of inhabitants have this level of education and training. And for me this is a source of optimism because it means that you have a a lot of young people with brain and enthusiasm and they will invent something better for sure. M >> I mean for the world in terms of innovation, culture uh and how to deal with climate change and biodiversity, how to so I I see that as a unique opportunity and to be to be cherished because clearly this is something we delivered during the past few years and still to be improved. What what scares me is uh the lack of u I would say predictable and reliable framework in terms of defense and security. M >> I think we enter during the past few years into uncharted territories and the fact that Russia decided to launch this crazy war in Ukraine, having a permanent member of the security council of the UN with nuclear deterrence deciding to launch a war which is a 19th century war meaning revising the border and trying to be in a sort of neoc colonial approach. is totally crazy but triggered a series of reactions everywhere and I think the fact that yes today a lot of big countries and big leaders seems not to see international order and the charter of the UN as sort of our common code and common rules and second this race for for more defense equipments arms and ammunition s is something very worrying and I think part of the work I have to deliver in the 15 months to come is obviously to make France credible in this race but on the other side as well to start engaging with a lot of countries to build a new framework >> in order to to limit your capacity to to have a misuse an appropriate use of this uh this arms and ammunitions. Does that scare you ever that you might not be able to finish it in next 15 months? >> I it doesn't scare me. It pushes me to be more more energetic and to to do my my best in order to to just to do it. >> Perfect. >> So I'm I'm I'm always in the action mode. >> Yeah, I would say >> you are. You are. You're always in action mode. And I have to tell you in the end I loved that speech of yours where you said plug baby plug. Like that was so good. >> It was one year ago. Yeah, I saw that. >> I think I submit. >> Yeah, >> plug, baby. Plug. >> It was really good. Thank you so much for doing this. I know we are short on time or else I would have spent like 3 hours digging deep in your mindset, but thank you so much for giving us this opportunity. >> I want to thank you and you can be very proud of uh what your country is achieving in all the different fields in innovation, tech, culture and uh and uh and the message you're providing to the rest of the world. And it was it was great for me in Mumbai here this morning to share this this this art with you. So thank you for taking the time. >> Thank you so much. Thank you. >> Hello. >> Hello. >> How are you? >> Very good sir. Pleasure meeting you. >> My pleasure. Thank you so much for taking the time. >> Thank you so much for agreeing to do this. >> Thank you. >> You want me to sit down here? >> Yes. >> I'm fine. >> By the way, Shamapel Raj, >> that's all my friend. [laughter] >> Come on. And where do you live? >> India. you. No, but where in India? My point. >> Uh, Mumbai or Mumbai. Mumbai. Mumbai. Mumbai. Mumbai. No. >> A lot of my friends who took French as a as a subject in this class. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. So, they keep talking like Jamapel, Kamoto. I don't know. Like, it's difficult, but I'm I'm glad I could do this with you and they're going to be jealous. [laughter] >> When did you start? >> 4 years ago. >> 4 years ago. >> 4 years ago. >> Right after co. >> Yeah. >> Oh, 19. >> I'm 28 now. >> Wow. Wow. And now we are heading towards becoming [music] world number one podcast. I think next 18 months we'll become >> Yeah. >> Yeah. We are 25 now in the world. We'll be one. There's no [music] French, Indian, Asian in top 10. There's only Americans. We're going to beat it. >> I love this state of mind. >> Yeah. >> I love this mindset. >> Yeah. Thank you so much for watching this podcast till the end. Please let us know in the comments what all did we do right so that we can improve and keep doing that better. and what all did we do wrong so that we never repeat it. And at the same time, please give us suggestions of who's the next guest that you want to see on the podcast. And don't forget to share this episode with at least one person who will get some insights because one conversation is enough to give people enough ideas to change their lives. I'll see you next time. Until then, keep figuring out and also don't forget to subscribe the channel. [music] >> [music]
