How does India look like from this space? [music] >> Looking at India in the daytime, colors are amazing. The Himalayas are absolutely amazing. You can see uh when the rivers run off, how they interact. Night, India is pretty spectacular. The cities are lit up and all those lights seems to be like connected. Sita Williams and Buchil are still stuck in space and are not expected to return. >> 10-day test flight turned into a 9-monl long mission in space. >> This after their Boeing Starlininer faced ruster failure. >> This time, this flight, the last one, was pretty messed up. >> Once after we launched and then we got to the space station, we knew we weren't going to come home as planned. We knew it would be six more months. When you're in space and coming home is a byproduct of this business, it's risky. >> [music] >> How many situations do you plan for? >> Oh gosh, hundreds. Trained for two years for a launch of a spacecraft cuz we go through with our control team. Hey, what if this failed? What if that failed? And what's the probability of this and that happening? >> Was there any point where you heard some sound and you got scared? We were all a little on edge when in this latest flight when we had a satellite below us in orbit um explode and then there was a bit of a debris field and so we were woken up in the middle of the night to all go to our own spacecraft. It's called safe haven and we all sort of hugged each other. Hopefully I'll see you on Earth. >> Did you feel lonely in one of those 286 days? >> People that you end up living in space they become family. >> Have you cried in space? Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. I miss people and I miss my dog, so of [music] course I cried. >> What was the most difficult part for you of the training? >> Like if I have to just go do something, it doesn't bother me. I've trained. I've done it. Like spacew walk stuff, robotic stuff doesn't make me nervous. But academics in college were hard for me. >> Before you set a foot on your first flight, you saw what happened with Kalpn Chavla. She's a friend of yours. She's a role model. and you saw her death. >> This day has brought terrible news and great sadness [music] to our country that Colombia is lost. There are no survivors. >> Did that event change anything you? I think the desire to explore more. I think it g gave us even more of a feeling of like we really want to continue this. We've got to do this in their memory. We're not going to let their situation put a stop on it. They wouldn't want that. So, we're going to press harder. What's the health cost you pay when you come back? >> For me, I always feel a little nauseous when I come back. The neurovvestibular system has not been working while you're up in space. It's sort of shut down and you have other feelings of orientation while you're up there. For me, I felt pretty nauseous for like 24 hours. >> Do you believe there's some life out there? >> Absolutely. With those billions of stars out there, we're just a little planet around one star. So yeah, there's life out there. >> How does space smell like? Tell me about your biggest insecurity. What's the strangest thing you've seen in the space which you think is going to be hard to believe for people here? >> Interesting. Um uh before starting today's episode, I have a small request. The whole team and I are working very hard to bring bigger and bigger guests for you so that we can give you more value and learnings through better conversations. And to continue doing that, I need you to subscribe our channel. It's free and takes only 2 seconds. And we promise that if you do this, we'll keep bringing the top 1% guests from all around the world and make you prouder one day. Our today's guest has done nine spacew walks, spent more than 62 hours walking in space, more than any other women in human history. Very few women get to lead the International Space Station. And she's not just commanded the ISS once, but twice. She has been part of three epic ISS missions, spent 608 days in space, the second most of any NASA astronaut ever. I'm talking about Sunita Williams, the woman who's flown 40 different aircraft, served as a Navy captain, and is also the first human being ever to have run a marathon in space. And just last year, she was stranded in space for 9 months when a spacecraft failed. The whole world washed, but she didn't panic. She took the charge. And in this conversation, we'll figure out the training, the mindset, the sacrifices it took to become one of the greatest female astronauts in the world. And what does it take to build a mindset where you can be calm when everything is going against you? [music] I'm just really, really honored to do this. I just wanted you to know this. >> Well, thank you. It's fun. It's great to be here. It's great to have a podcast. I know it opens up to another audience. So, thank you for the invitation. >> Everybody knows you, but let's say if 0.01% people don't know you, >> okay, >> then what about your childhood you would tell them which has shaped you the person who you are today? Uh I think the biggest thing about my childhood that shaped me was I came from a family that was multicultural, multi- religions, um multi food, [laughter] most important I guess. And uh and that's a really it's a big benefit. I didn't you know you don't realize it when you're a kid, you know, it's just it's life. It's how it is. Um but I think uh just appreciation for different cultures at a young age not even realizing it I think was really beneficial and set me up um for success I would say just because I I feel like I can um relate to a lot of different people or at least have the patience to listen for a moment. >> At what point in your childhood you felt like this is a strength like m being multicultural is a strength now? Oh gosh. I don't think I realized it for a long time for a while. Like it it was a little bit I think more so um we were different. We are a different family and we all knew that but I don't know I didn't know if it was a strength until later on in life where um >> uh just easy to deal with people. I think [snorts] that >> what do you mean by different? >> Uh well we were the only Indian family in our town. >> Okay. >> Or partially Indian family. So I think we stuck out pretty much. My sister and I had long hair, of course, long Indian hair while we were growing up. We were also swimmers and so we were the type that got up in the morning and swam before school coming into school with wet hair and so we were just different in regards to other people in the town. I think people knew who we were then too. The pandas. [laughter] >> Yeah. >> Did you at any point feel like that was maybe a weakness or that maybe put you in a different light than other people? >> Oh, sure. like as a kid, you know, of course when you're like a a a kid or more so like when you're an early teed, you're you're when you don't blend in with everybody else and you're a little bit different. Of course, that's a little bit uncomfortable. Um but it also at the same time I was I think confident, secure in myself that I, you know, I thought the more important thing was athletics and academics and I didn't really didn't really bother me that much. Were you insecure at any point? >> Absolutely. My whole life I think every and I think everybody is. They just have to sort of push through it and I think that's part of part of life is just like pushing through boundaries and things that make you feel a little uncomfortable and that's the way you can achieve more. So yeah, absolutely. Yeah. >> Tell me about your biggest insecurity. >> Uh ah gosh, my biggest I don't know about my biggest. [laughter] I mean just I my whole job uh from being um you know like first of all as a athlete as a you know you get on the starting blocks you're nervous right so that's one thing you're a little bit insecure about your capabilities and your abilities uh gets proven in the pool or on the track or wherever it is um but you know just getting to that starting point as they say is is a little bit scary um and then just I think in all of the things that I in my career that I've done I had major insecurities about it. Like, wow, am I am I going to be able to pass this check ride? Am I going to be able to be a pilot? Am I going to be able to know how to do a spacew walk? Am I going to be able to do the robotic arm? I think all those all those things. I think there's points of insecurity. Yes, you prepare as best as you can, but then at this at one point in time, at least myself, I doubt myself at times. Um, you know, like >> do you do that today? >> Absolutely. I think we all do it. I think we all do that. Like if you don't then you're not really being introspective. I think >> true. >> I think it's hard to think that you know everything and not have an appreciation for uh the rest of the world around you that might have a surprise for you. >> What are you insecure about today? Like you've accomplished so many things now. [laughter] >> Um a a lot. I mean the next steps of my life. What am I going to do in the next steps of my life? I, you know, I want to, we're moved. I'm retired. We've moved. Uh, what am I going to do? I don't know. And I mean, think I'm insecure about it, but I don't really care cuz it's going to be it's all I know better now. It's all going to work out. I wish I had known that when I was a kid. Uh, you know, cuz I think those insecurities take over a little bit more when you're younger when you don't realize it's all going to work out. >> You know, it's so fascinating. You do like your main work is uncertaintity for living. Like that's what like you don't know what's going to happen the next moment and you're you think about what's going to happen next. That's like you're insecure about the uncertaintity in your life like what's going to happen now but you've lived all your life just thinking about let's live in the moment and not think about what's going to happen next. >> Uh yes and I think you you bring up a good point. Let's I think that is the way you deal with it. Like let's live in the moment. Like I think people have insecurities of course when they look in the future and you but you can't you can't make it you can guide it but you can't uh anticipate every little thing. So living in the in the moment is I think the best methodology. >> You know you say a lot about that u you've made a pivot every time things don't work out you made a pivot. >> So you wanted to become something else in the childhood then you applied for certain things you didn't get in and then you finally ended up becoming who you are today. How did you know that >> this is something that you don't want to give up? because everything every time when it didn't work out, you just pivoted. You're like, "Maybe not for me, not for me, not for me." And then, >> well, I I I like this is another thing I think I wish I knew when I was a younger kid that, you know, things work out for a reason. Um, maybe it's because you have better qualifications in one area than another, although you think this is what you might want to do. um and be ready for those extra doors to open that you didn't even anticipate. So those are things that I like I said I wish I had known then because I think I was a little bit more had more anticipation maybe a little bit more nervousness about it when I was younger versus just like sort of going with the flow because like let's just see what's behind the next door cuz it might be something that I never even imagined and things like that. So that's why I mention this when I'm talking to kids about this this younger age pivot about trying to know what you want to do when you're 17 that seems almost ridiculous now that I look back and think about it and I ask and I find myself asking kids too like what do you want to be when you grow up? What do you want to do when you grow up? How the heck do they know? It's sort of a silly question to ask them. So more should more should be like what do you what are you interested in? um what what what kinds of things have you been exposed to or what what do you do you want to do something else or can I uh guide you to a direction that might be something that you never even thought of you know that's I think more appropriate questions honestly now that I look back at the whole thing because how the heck do you know what you want to do when you're a kid and you and I think that causes a lot of anxiety and stress with people and you don't need to have that >> true what got you interested in this in space in NASA in the things that you I wasn't really a straight shot. So, it wasn't what I wanted to do when I was a kid. Um, even when I was a pilot, I really wasn't a helicopter pilot. It wasn't the first thing on my list. It wasn't until later that I got exposed to it. So, that's why I say like when I was just mentioning like for if I'm talking to a kid like how can I expose you to something else like like um just take a look at you know the spa space program, take a look at aviation those are my backgrounds, right? take a look at diving or you know expose them to some other person adult that has done something different um just so they get an idea of things that are out there. Um anyway, it wasn't until I met somebody who had gone to space, had gone to Johnson Space Center, and then I was like, "Wow, this job looks like fun." And some of those people were my friends um that I had known as a test pilot. So I trusted their opinion also. Uh so getting to know more and more people um who are in the jobs that potentially you might like is a good idea. So like if I I had not really talked to a veterinarian beside for when I went to the vet with my dog. So [laughter] probably I should have done like some type of internship somewhere with a veterinarian to find out if I really like that but I hadn't didn't do that. >> True. So but let's say you got interested in it but before you enter I'm assuming like before you enter a rocket they would test you in some way right maybe mentally physically there would be some kind of training going on. >> Oh absolutely. when you first get to uh become an astronaut, wherever you're going to be an astronaut, if it's at, you know, an American astronaut at Johnson Space Center, European in Cologne or uh you know, Japanese in at JAXA or if you're going to be uh like um Shukla and and and do it like an Axiom flight, you're going to be tested one way or the other here or uh during the process to one become an astronaut and then two and you're on your journey to get trained to be ready to go. So there's testing all the way along the way. So that's um sometimes intimidating, right? And going back to the insecurities a little bit. That's sort of like, wow, I've never learned how to do this before. I don't know if I know how to do robotic move the you know, operate the robotic arm or um you know, get ready for a spacew walk. How am I going to learn how to do this? And you know, you find the mentors, the people who have done it before. Same all the way back. It's it's full circle like it's like [laughter] having you know talking to a kid about something that they might want to do and find out as much as you can and learn as much as you can and and study and and figure it all out and actually if you have to studying means also like for spacew walks work out right because it's it's physically demanding. So you know what you need to do the the background for each of those things and do the best that you can. >> Is there any psychological screening that you go through? Oh yeah. Yeah, that there is definitely some uh testing like just on paper testing. I'm not really sure what all that indicates, but there is some of that and maybe it's just to annoy you because you have to take a lot of you do a lot of written tests. I don't know what it's for exactly, but then there's um parts where we are looking at astronauts um together as they're getting interviewed, giving them a problem that's very hard to solve and seeing how they do that. And that's not just like a a paper problem like a you know like take this whatever this table and move it over this bridge and around this water and put it there and and put people in groups and see who naturally falls out as a leader who naturally you know adds to the team. So we want to make sure we have team players because none of this is done by ourselves. >> Yeah. >> Um and then we also do along the path when you're getting trained during the time for that you're waiting we go to national outdoor leadership school. So, you learn a little bit about yourself um as well as other people cuz you're it's taking you away out of the scenario to some place. Maybe you're backpacking, maybe you're doing rafting or something where you're in an uncomfortable situation. You're not sleeping in your own bed. You're sleeping in a tent. You're making your own food. Uh you're going to the bathroom in weird places. You know, getting your all getting you sort of ready for um working as a team and then finding out where your hot spots are, where your points are that that make you uncomfortable. Um I'm I like uh organizing, you know, my stuff. You know, everybody has their little nest whenever they're have the things that they have. And when somebody doesn't and their stuff's all over the place, it a little bit drives me crazy. And I so I know that about myself. So I know when I might encounter a crew mate that um has stuff like all over the place that might it might cause me anxiety, but that's my problem and I have to deal with that. So does that make sense? So you understand more about yourself because you can't change other people. >> What was the most difficult part for you? The most difficult part >> of the training >> of training um uh I get nervous about tests. Um I think it's it's more like just when you have to do rote memorization. I think that's what um I was sort of well I was a lot insecure about if you want to go back to that. Well, during my college academics, um, I I struggled. I did really well in high school. So, I had a base because I had went to a really good high school in our public high schools. Um, but academics in college were hard for me. Just taking tests were hard. Understanding, >> you know, I don't know, whatever it written tests are hard. So, that carries that's carried through my whole life. So, whenever I have a written test, um I I can feel that I get a little bit nervous about it. Um actually doing something I don't get nervous about. Like if I have to just go do something, it doesn't bother me. Like I just I've trained, I've done it like spacew walk stuff, robotic stuff doesn't make me nervous. I just sort of put the things together logically in my head and I can do the task. But memorizing things and writing stuff down, that's that's not that's the tough part. That's tough for me. [laughter] >> But what happens like is it not tough when five thrusts are failing? You're like in middle of situation where it's like chaotic. You don't know what's going to happen. >> Um I think you know like >> isn't that tough like you have to compartmentalize that particular moment. compartmentalization is is something that we've trained to do quite a bit like just with our military training as a military pilot because you can only um fix one thing at a time and you have to just know your systems well enough to understand what capabilities you have and how you're going to work with those capabilities. So, as the thrusters were were failing, yes, this is a bad situation. Butch and I looked at each other and we're like, "Oh, this is not so good." Um, but we knew what we needed to do. we needed, what we really needed to do was dock to the space station because we didn't know >> how our spacecraft would react if we were doing other maneuvers at that point in time. So that was the biggest thing. And I think I mean just like the movie The Martian. >> Mhm. >> If you look at how he solved problems, it's like one little bite at a time. When you have a big problem, you can't you can't deal with it, right? It's too much. It's overwhelming. I think just in life [clears throat] that happens too. Sometimes you like, I don't know, if you're um want to change something at your house, sometimes the project looks too big and you just have to take one little bite at a time. Okay, I'm just going to start with painting or I'm just going to start uh you know with picking out something that I have to add to my house. Same thing happens with these big problems, right? With thrusters like, okay, we we can't go outside and fix them. So we have to deal we have to deal with what we have and we have to just handle this situation and um we didn't start thinking about at least I didn't think start thinking about how we are going to come home. I thought like let's just focus on docking and everything because there's many parts of all of that uh and make sure that is all squared away. If that doesn't happen then we'll work on the next thing. So you solve things one piece at a time. I think that's how you solve big problems. But is there any mental technique that helps you keep calm during the time of chaos? Is there some kind of breath work that you do? Is it some kind of visualization technique? Something that you do or you're just trained yourself so much that you don't care. Like it just comes naturally. >> I think it comes naturally at this point honestly. Um I we've all been in situations flying aircraft that something doesn't work quite right and you just sort of have to figure it out and get it on the ground as when you can. I mean, I had my own little aircraft and that situation happened at one point in time when the winds picked up quite a bit and I had to just sort of figure out like, okay, we're not going to land here. We're not going to land here. We're not we're going to land here. But at some point in time, we have to land. We're running out of gas. [laughter] So, so, um, you know, you have to make that situation happen, right? Same thing with spacew walks, too. Like, you know, something might not go well right from the get-go, but doesn't mean you you stop and you just don't do anything. On my first spacew walk, I lost a camera. You know, you just can't you can't just sit there and be sad about these things. You just have to move on and and pick it the pieces up and just go with what you have. And the same thing with the thruster situation on Starlininer. And um you know, we knew that there would be a plan. We have what we practice quite a bit with our mission control team about what we call like no radio procedures, Nordo procedures. And so if we didn't weren't able to communicate with them, I think we would have already had a a plan to go into 10 meters and wait there and try to figure out how the spacecraft flew. If the spacecraft didn't fly very well, then we would back away because we wouldn't want to put the state space station in danger. >> How many situations do you plan for before you go? >> Oh gosh, hundreds. Um, and that's what all that training is for. So people sometimes say like, why do you have to train for two years for a launch of a spacecraft? because we go through with our control team all of the different things that not us only them all of them think of hey what if this failed what if that failed and what's the probability of this and that happening so people have talked through all of that as much as they can so it was interesting actually I was just uh talking to somebody about an electric airplane I'm like what kind of failures do you have there because usually when you're thinking about failures of something mechanical like your car there's oil there's gas there's mechanical parts. So if it's an electric vehicle, what problems do you have there? So batteries obviously. So it's a whole different, you know, every every mechanical thing has some some type of problems and so you just got to be creative in the way you think about uh the failures. >> Has it ever happened that you've trained for everything and still something new has happened? Oh, the thruster failure obviously [laughter] was you know we've trained for failure uh you know thruster problems and we've actually flown the simulator with one or two thrusters uh not working and of course the controls are sloppy. So five was a big deal and and actually went against some of our flight rules about how we were going to operate the spacecraft. And so um so that's when the control team came into play and then they turned off some of the um monitoring systems as well as restarted the engines. And that way we were able to at least get controllability, make sure we had controllability in all six axis cuz we lost in one. Um, and then we were able bypassing some flight rules because they usually say that it has to be redundant. Uh, we we went in and tried to dock and were successful. So that was great. >> Has it ever happened that some astronaut has has like broken psychologically like at one point they've just maybe they were not able to take it. No, I I mean I think the training is good enough that we um we make sure we we send everybody up that's has that those tools in their tool belt, they'll be okay. I mean, everybody understands stress a little bit different and like I said, that's why we do some of that national outdoor leadership school. So, you can understand that and you can see that when you're with your other crew mates. Um you know, some people like some time by themselves, some people are very chatty, you know, when they get stressed out. Um, so there's it it's going to happen. Everyone's going to it's going to happen at some point in time. So, um, to a degree though, everybody's in a box, in a controllable box, you know. So, >> have you cried in space? >> Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. I miss people and I missed my dog. So, of course, I cried, you know, that Yeah, absolutely. There's there's been goods and bads. I mean, and also like for for really good things that have happened, too. Um, a friend of mine, her mom was sick while we were in space and um, just having those conversations, you know, that's just, you know, your your friends, your colleagues, if someone told you you, you know, you're their parent was sick and they having some problems and, you know, that that's hard to deal with. And so, you're you're helping somebody else and you're um, just being a friend, a shoulder that somebody can like lean on. And the you know the same thing happens like I get frustrated with something and I'm talking to my one of the crew mates up there about something um or something that's happening at home. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. Everybody everyone has everyone goes through normal emotions here as as in there. Yeah. >> So what happens when you cry in space? Your tears don't fall. [laughter] [gasps] >> Yeah. Everything water all around you gets just sort of baldled up on you. Um, same with like when you're working out, you get super sweaty because stuff just gets like too much water everywhere. [laughter] So, you need a couple tissues. >> So, like you just start crying like is it difficult? Is it like just stuck? >> It just will just make your eyes very watery. Like really watery. [laughter] You got to get rid of that though. So, you can see [laughter] >> you'll be like a fish in an aquarium. I I have to ask you a weird question like what what's the worst part about using a bathroom in space? >> Oh gosh, so much bad about it. The grav no gravity assist. And so uh you uh for me I [laughter] you know first of all just absolutely just being able to do it first the first thing right because you need to get rid of everything at some point in time get rid of all that bad stuff. So you have to go to the bathroom. Um, so doing it first of all, um, get getting over the fear of like going cuz you know it's not going to fall down. So it's like, okay, you just got to go and turn the hose on and it will it'll take it away and don't worry about it. So then and then the number two part that's also adds a your body's not used to it. So you have to sort of get your body used to those muscles to push everything out the right way. Um, and then and then it's just sort of I wait I wait till I'm ready to go and then I can just go. [laughter] I think that takes care of it. That takes care of all the the wishy-washy about it. If you can't really you have to commit. You have to just get in there and just go. [laughter] >> You also said I was reading somewhere you said that people fart a lot up there. >> Oh yeah. Yeah. There's a lot. And I don't know why exactly but it just happens. Everybody does because if it's the preservatives in the food or something like that. I'm not really sure why, but everybody everybody does. And I think after a while potentially people get used to it and it seems like it happens a little less for some people, but sometimes for other people it just keeps going on. It's terrible. [laughter] >> And then you have to live up in that space for like days and it smells bad. >> No, it it'll move. It'll move. We have we have a pretty good ventilation system. So stuff starts to move around pretty quick. But if you if somebody farted [laughter] and you you're like right behind them flying through the module, you're going to fly right through it. >> How does space smell like? >> Uh it smells like us. [laughter] Smells like the food that we eat and it smells like us. [laughter] But you know like interestingly enough I think it's not that bad because like we had at some periods of time 12 people on the space station when generally seven um and people are all working out people are all eating and it to me it didn't didn't smell that bad at all. I mean it was just sometimes a little stronger when some stronger types of food uh I eventually got Indian food for example so you could smell that. um some things with garlic, you know, obviously you could smell that. Um I I actually really like the smell of garlic, so it's for me it was fine. Sometimes fish because we had uh um like a lot of salmon or tuna fish and so that's sticks around for a little bit longer maybe, but it all ends up dissipating. >> So that that smell, what about the sound? Because ISS it caks and moans, right? like it just you can hear that sound almost all the time. >> Um some areas it it also depends on what the sunlight what how our orbit is in comparison to the sun. So sometimes uh when we're getting heated up quite a bit there's some areas which sort the metal sort of just pops and bends a little bit and then that was reported obviously somebody was like ah what happened and so then um then we realized what the situation is. So whenever there's like a lot of sun on these parts are called a pressurized mating adapter cuz they're black on the outside. If you look at different parts of the space station, you'll see most of it's silver which is sort of reflective. Um but some of it is um this black part and that's the part that gets really hot and makes those creeks and moans um and bumps. Uh other things beside for that are some of the ventilation and you can hear stuff kick on, start up and and shut down. That happens periodically. Obviously, you can find it on the, you know, if you go into the uh computer page where it has the system that has that specific system, you'll probably see what happens. Have you heard any scary sound? Like what's the scariest sound you've heard? [laughter] I'm just like childlike curious right now at this point. >> Yeah. But >> when you were stuck like for 286 days, what's the most scariest sound you heard? >> Um gosh, I'm trying to think of something. Um I think valves moving, closing, and opening. I'm I'm I don't know. I'm I I am used to the space station. The space station is sort of like a second [clears throat] home. So, uh, my first time up there, I'm looking at it up on the wall. That's why I'm looking. I'm trying to think of what [laughter] was, uh, what was scary. But my first time there when I was in the, uh, forward part of the space station living there by myself with my two other Russian colleagues in the way back. Yeah, I got scared a little bit because first time I'm like very hyper sensitive to all of these switching of pumps and fans and noises. one antenna out right outside our former there was a crew quarters there uh would turn every now and the night or I think it was a camera actually and sometimes the folks in mission control would turn it so they could see stuff and it was like right outside the window so we could hear inside um so I was asking a lot of questions during that flight like what's that what's that what's that but now that you I've lived there for a long time I feel like I know most of the things that are happening or I can figure it out like okay that that sounds like a motor. That sounds like a valve. So that must be coming from over here. So this is this. So you know it's just like as though you've like again lived at your house for a long time. So you get used to like when the furnace kicks on or something and you know [laughter] like oh yeah that's happening again. >> But when but for the first time you must have heard at that time. Did it scare you? the first time it did because particularly um when I was the like I said the only person living in that part of the space station and my other American counterpart had gone home and you know this is my responsibility was this part of the space station. I was like uhoh what what is that? What is that? What is that? So I ended calling the ground a couple times probably in the in that time frame um if I remember correctly just sort of is that normal? Is that normal? And they were like yes yes don't worry about it. [laughter] Was there any point where in all your time in in space, was there any point where you heard some sound and you're like, "Oh, this is it." Like this like you froze for a moment and like you got scared? >> No. Um I I wouldn't say that. I think we were all a little on edge one in this latest flight when we had a satellite below us in orbit um explode or disintegrate or something and then there was a bit of a debris field and so we were woken up in the middle of the night to all go to our own spacecraft. It's called safe haven um because the space they weren't sure whether or not the debris would hit the space station. So, we had about 45 minutes. And the funny part about that is we all met at the bathroom essentially one last time to go to the bathroom on the, as I call it, the big hotel in space because the spacecraft are sort of like a little camper. So, they don't have really good bathrooms on the spacecraft. And so, it was like, you know, take advantage of, okay, I've got 45 minutes. What am I going to do? I'm going to go to the bathroom. I'm going to get some water, say hug my friends, say goodbye. Um, that was a little bit surreal situation, I think. Not because of the bathroom. The bathroom was just sort of funny. But um as we were leaving uh three spacecraft that have human beings that are going to return to Earth. So one spacecraft's going to go and land in the ocean, one's going to land around them in the United States, one's going to land in the desert in Kazakhstan, one's going to land in the desert um in the United States. And we all sort of hugged each other and we're like, "Hopefully I'll see you on Earth." [laughter] You know, that was a little bit weird. Um, and I wasn't necessarily scared, just sort of, you know, it made me stop for a moment and go like, "Wow, this is this would be bad if we all had to leave and then we leave the space station." We had some things we had to do to make sure the space station was in a safe configuration as much as possible. Closing hatches, getting things ready. Um, so we didn't have time too much time to sit around and think about it. But for it for a second that flashed through my mind as we were all there by the bathroom and we're giving each other a couple little hugs, saying goodbye. So that was weird. That was uh that a little unsettling I guess. >> So you said this this time this flight the last one was pretty pretty messed up right when you got stuck at you when you got stuck for 286 days. >> Um I don't know if it I would say messed up is the right word. I would say it was a little bit unpredictable in the beginning like that whole summer was like like unfortunately that was the hardest part. I think the beginning part uh for once after we launched and then we got to the space station. We knew we weren't going to come home as planned but there was a lot of people on the ground who were still working to we're going to get home. We're going to come home tomorrow. We're going to come home tomorrow. We're going to come home tomorrow. like wait a minute we all have to understand what the problem is and understand what the fix is and all that kind of stuff but of course NASA doesn't want to miss an opportunity so they still had a lot of people turned on to keep working through all this so that so that meant there was questions coming to up to us and we were answering questions back and forth um when when it seemed like the probability was pretty slim that we'd coming back in the next you know two weeks or month um we really needed to get some answers to what happened and understand that problem and see if there was an adequate fix before we would get back in that spacecraft. So that whole time frame, you know, it's hard to have patience, right? I think all of us have to work on that. They say patience is a virtue and it's very true because it's sort of like when something uncontrollable is happening. You just had to have to sort of wait until the appropriate answer is provided. That's hard because you sort of want to go, how's it going down there? [laughter] How's it going? Have you have you solved the problem yet? you know, like what what is the answer? Do we know yet? And you you sort of have to give people some time. So, uh we tried our best. I think we were sort of annoying at some points in time and asking the questions. Um and try and it's it's hard when you're up in space. It's like, uh during COVID when we had Zoom calls, it was really hard to really, you know, get to the bottom of some things, right? Because you had to just you couldn't see somebody. You couldn't go and put your hands on something. You're not right there. And that's what it's sort of like all the time on the space station. We aren't there. I'm not seeing the test setup. I I don't know what all the parameters are. I listen to the the meetings, but you know how it is in Zoom calls, right? Sometimes your your mind is doing something else when you should come back to what's going on, right? So, it's a little bit it was hard to really be part of the the solution process. It was easy to ask questions, but it's hard to be part of the process. And so, that that was a little frustrating. Uh I think the not so frustrating part uh at first but then became frustrating was uh my family. I think they were wonderful at first like oh you know just come home be safe. It's all that it's all good you know like you know you're going to be home soon you know you'll be home by the falls it's all good you know. So then I think the hard harder part of course is like turning that and telling folks that you're not going to be home for a little longer. And so um you know at the by the end I think we both Butch and I before even the decision was made we had an idea that this is not going to happen. And we knew the next time we'd come home is with the next spacecraft. I mean this is this is the process we've been living for a long time. We know that every six months there's a spacecraft that goes up and there's a spacecraft that comes home >> and they're not going to change that. It's very expensive. It's a it's a contract. It's a you know it's the production of the spacecraft. So that's how it's going to go. So as the sum summer summer went on and it was getting clear that we probably weren't going to come home. Um we knew it would be six more months. So that's when like making those phone calls like like around the you know August time frame like uh I'm not coming home for a little while. We'll see you next year. [laughter] But um but I I think I'm very very fortunate. My family was like hey it's okay. You know don't worry about it. Have a good time. come home on a safe spacecraft. And uh I wrote journals on my first two missions and I started it started it while we were up there for the summer and my sister's like, "Just keep writing the journals cuz they're fun to read." I'm like, "Oh, [laughter] okay." And you know, and it's not just fun, it's um I have a a group of people that I sent those to. So, it it was able I was able to take a lot of people along on the journey with me and show them through my uh photographs, not just mine, but my crew mates photographs and what we were doing up there, what it's like to live in work in space. And, you know, the aperture gets widened when you have time to do that. So, I had I had a lot of people following along with me and uh you know, because I was doing that, a lot of support from friends and family. So, that was pretty awesome. So that first time when you [snorts] when you got this feeling that hey maybe you're not going home and you're definitely you're asking questions to the ground support you're asking questions but when you're alone you're not asking questions and you're impatient what going what's going on in your head like now you know you're not going to go home for a while. >> Oh yeah. So I mean right from the beginning anyway um we had things to do for our spacecraft while it stuck to the space station. Those test points just uh working. So we did we just kept that whole process, right? What we had already planned to do for the those next 10 days and we had a little extra time. So we're doing some little extra tests. So that was great. And then after that, you know, we had some free time essentially, Butch and I, of course, we had we worked out. So it's how do we help? How do I be part of the team? You know, I need to occupy my time with that type of stuff. I like doing that. I'm I'm not gonna sit around and feel sorry for myself. It's like, hey, there's 12 of us up here. We're going through a lot of food. How about if I transfer the food and put it in the right place? How about if I work on the toilet because we're going through the toilet supplies faster than than we should. So, how can I help out and just help the team? The things that are like um you know, standard things that you have to do like take the trash out, you know, like all the things that we normally do here at home. There's there's specific things we do that we train for. Then there's things that we've uh that you just have to do on a routine basis. So, just try to jump in and help the team as much as possible. >> You don't give yourself time. Just just keep yourself occupied all the time. >> I I do generally try I I don't like to hang out. Just hang out. That's sort of silly. Specifically in space there's there's a lot of things to do. It's like never a dull moment. And then um once it was sort of not not even then I think just in general if there was free time and somebody was working on an experiment sometimes your hands are in a glove box and you know then you need to get something to do something. You got to take your hands out of the glove box. it's a little bit of a production or you have uh protective equipment on because you're working on something that's a little bit dangerous and so then you're trying to make a phone call that's hard because you have to undo everything and call back to the ground uh you know get everything off of you. So when when for me it was like, "Oh, if that person's working on the experiment, how about if I'm I'm your right-hand man. If you need something, just tell me. I'll go go over here and get it for you." Or, you know, you're working on the toilet with all that stuff on. I'll make the calls down to the ground and then we could work through all these things more efficiently. So there's all of that to do too, just to just to help out the team. I mean, and that's what we're trained to do, you know, just to help out and that makes the that that makes time go by for one thing. [laughter] It's not that time you really want time to go by, but that also just helps everybody out. And of course, the cool thing that we did, well, we I think we uh not not me in particular, but my crew mates were really um great photographers. [snorts] And so Butch and Dawn, they ended up spending time like setting up different cameras to take some amazing time lapses and stuff like that, too. So, there's always something to do while you're up there. >> Was there a night where you lost hope? >> No. Never. No. No. No. No, that's so funny that that's a question. It is interesting that people said like and I understand I guess I could understand why just because of the press and the narrative that was going on that we were stuck in space. >> Um I I really wasn't scared because I knew that there was hundreds of people if not thousands that are working on trying to figure out one what the problem is, two can we fix it, and three how do we get back? So all of that was going on down on the ground. I know that was all happening. Not even for one like moment you felt like maybe this is it. I'm not going home. >> No. Um we actually even before uh our spacecraft left, we designed some sort of makeshift seats on the on the Dragon that was there. So we had planned seats in case something happened, in case we had another safe haven or something that we had to get in our spacecraft because of something that happened that was out of our control. Um we actually had a seat in a spacecraft. It wasn't a great seat. It did wasn't didn't have uh you know air breathing connections in a space suit, but we did still have a seat. So, I mean, there's always there's always something. There's we we always plan on something. Those seats needed to be completed. Those seats needed to be completed before we told Starliner to leave. >> Wow. >> Yeah. [snorts] >> Never. That's incredible. No, I mean I have a lot of >> because like from here down here like all the press, all the news, all the stuff that we read, >> it it looked like like you're stuck like you're there's no hope for you to come back. There's NASA and Boeing fighting. They're like people just arguing [laughter] there stuff going on >> and there are thousands of people making content on you and like it just >> it felt pretty scary and like genuinely I've seen so much content where people were worried. >> Everybody was wondering. >> Yeah. Yeah. So I I like I said, I understand why people would have that impression just because of what the narrative that was going on and the the the miscommunications I think back and forth. And I think u that's a little potentially unfortunate. Uh >> but did your family ever feel like? >> No. No. That's because we were in touch all the time. >> Like I >> you spoke to them after coming back and did they have the same feeling that >> Absolutely. You probably saw my mom at some point in time on the news and um she was she was not worried cuz I mean I'm talking to her. I'm telling her that it's going to be okay. you know, it's not not something they need to worry about. The the the sort of what it what I don't want to call it like really makeshift, but the the the seats in the dragon, that wasn't a great scenario. And um we we have we talked about that and there was a little bit uh folks were not ready for that scenario like uhoh like what now we have to accommodate two more people in this dragon in case there's a problem. How do we do it? people came up with some great Apollo 13 solutions with these makeshift seats and stuff, but this is not the professional right way to do it. And so now we actually have a seat kit. >> So if somebody um from another spacecraft needs to transfer over to this one, they'll be able to do that with a better seat and we'll be able actually have extra space suits. So we'll be able to do that. probably have uh we're working on I'm not sure the status of it, but like being able to connect the air um with another seat with a T like a like a Y cable. So, all of those are great lessons learned cuz that was I think the worst part. That wasn't a great platform to land. >> Um somebody might have, you know, >> we did our best that we could do. We actually had a medical doctor who had a lot of uh experience in this in this um setup. So he did his best as he can to try to come up with seats, but that wasn't optimal. >> It's not really the right way to do stuff. So, um, like I said, that was that was the most uncomfortable when we were in those seats like I don't really want to come home like this. [laughter] >> But, um, but the probability, right, that that something would hit the space station after we had already had something happen was was pretty low. Um, so in my estimation, we we all take risks. >> Yeah, >> we're in this business because it's risky. um not because but as as a byproduct of this business it's risky when you launch on a rocket uh when you're in space and coming home you you accept some of those risks um so this was not out of the box I would say >> you know when you're up there you you go through multiple sunrises and sunsets in a day right I think 16 >> yeah 16 sunrises and 16 sunsets in 24 hours some days would feel like very short some days would be very long right >> which one was the longest day for you >> so when you're on an exp a deployment or an expedition. I think time changes just in your head, right? Obviously, it doesn't change in general, but it changes as >> once we got to that point where we we knew we were going to stay for a little bit longer, >> it was almost like a reset. It was almost like the start of the whole expedition all over again because other folks were leaving and then we were going to be the normal seven. >> So, at that point in time, it felt like it's just starting. So, time is normal. Um somewhere in there uh there was a thought that we might not come home until May and somewhere around Christmas like oh that might be long we'll be [laughter] up here for a long period of time and so that was that's when time sort of slowed down a little bit and also I mean it goes handinhand with activity level also um we had just finished doing a lot of science experiments >> we were just getting ready to do some spacew walk stuff so we had a little bit of a lull time Um, and so time was a little bit slow there. And then it accelerates when activities happen again. As soon as we started getting ready for spacew walks, like a week and a half, two weeks before the spacew walks, things started going fast. Um, our first spacew walk was January 16th. And then, so right after New Year's, it was like, oh my gosh, now time is like accelerating. Then we had another one at the end of January. And then it was like a breather for a second thinking, okay, now we have a lot of time again. Slow down. And then they said, "Okay, now you're coming home in March >> all of a sudden." And so then all a sudden time really accelerated and everybody was like, "Let's getting one last picture. Let's do the, you know, what did I want to do before I left?" >> All of that was happening really quick. So I think it goes in in in waves depending on activity level, depending on um the projection of when you might be home. >> Um I'll go back to the very beginning. The summer seemed a little bit long, too. That seemed like it was dragging on a little bit without decision. >> [laughter] >> Did you feel Did you feel lonely in one of those 286 days? >> Um I don't know about lonely. Um there was always people around. Um >> but family wasn't. >> Yeah, the family wasn't. Um the people that you end up living in space with are like family though. They become family. Like I you probably seen pictures of us during Christmas time uh Thanksgiving and Christmas where we uh you know we we tried to connect with family. We actually had like uh in the United States there's a big parade Macy's Day parade for Thanksgiving. We had that on a screen so we could watch it. Sort of makes that connection back to home. And on those on holidays we actually have some time off. So it's nice to be able to call home and do [clears throat] like a uh video conference with people back at home too. and you know do a tour, show people around and um it's fun to see your crew mates like at the dinner table and have them wave to your family and see each other's families and stuff like that too. So I think when you get lonely you have an opportunity to one make some phone calls on the weekends or when you have some free time, make some video calls and just try to see what's going on back at home and have folks back at home try to see what's going on up in space. Um I reconnected with a lot of my relatives um while I was up there which was wonderful. Some of my folks some the capability is there right and we all learned it from COVID how to zoom and how to be in do video conferences sometimes not so successfully as everybody's talking on top of each other [laughter] but um you know some of my relatives here in India some of my relatives uh you know all over the country in United States would all get on and then I could talk to them and give them a tour around. It was that was that was actually a lot of fun and um makes it not feel like lonely. Of course, when you hang up, you're like, "Oh, you know, I wish I was down doing this." Or, you know, when somebody's telling you some of the fun things that they're doing, of course, you wish you were there >> being part of that. But then you pinch yourself for a second and you go, "Oh my god, I'm living up in space. This is so cool. Look, like go to the window for a second and see how beautiful it is." I mean, >> I I really wasn't that lonely, honestly. Not at all. No. No. I miss my dogs mostly. Was there so you you never had the loneliest night in space? You don't remember? >> Not really. [laughter] Maybe I I feel like I'm a robot answering these questions, but um but you know, I mean that's like I think one of the things that I would like people to realize like this is an amazing opportunity when you have an I mean even uh I think about when I was had deployments at sea. You know, you get up in the morning. Maybe it's an attitude. I don't know. But you get up in the morning, you go outside and you see some some of the most beautiful sunrises that you can ever imagine in the middle of the ocean on a, you know, deployment. Same thing. You get up in space and you go to the window and you don't know what you're going to see. I mean, every day is like, "Oh, what's there?" You know, it's a surprise or it's nighttime or what does lightning look like or whatever. It's just incredible. And you you also know that this is not going to last forever. You're going to come home at some point in time. I mean, I think that's always on the back of my mind. I was like, this is a chance. Even on my first flight, I was sad to leave. I was like crying like when I left because I was like, I don't know if I'll ever have this opportunity again. And it's so incredible. >> What are the kind of dreams you get in space? Is it different? >> Oh, interesting. My father asked me the same question because he was a neuro was a neuroscientist and um you know, sometimes you dream about I think you dream about sometimes experience, right? So it was like dreaming about where you are, what you're doing. And then it gets a little bit crazy as all dreams do, right? So they're not reality. But but like I was dreaming that I was in space. I was dreaming that I was doing spacew walks. I was also dreaming that I was back at home. Like it was so interesting that you could dream about both of those. And I feel like when I've come back to Earth, I've also dreamed about being in space as well, cuz I've had that experience. It's it seems like it wears off though, which is unfortunate. As the farther and farther you get away from your space flight, you sort of come out of that. Like it's like I don't dream as much about space anymore. I used to when I first got back quite a bit. >> But is it different when you dream here on Earth and when you dream in the space? Like is it the kind of dreams do you dream of falling? Do you dream of [laughter] >> All the same. I think the same in that regard, but you based on experience. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I wasn't fall. If I was dreaming about space, I wouldn't fall. >> Yeah. Exactly. [laughter] >> Yeah. [snorts] >> So, there there's nothing different about it. Do you hear like different kind of sounds? Because you're always constant in an environment which is either very silent or like very noisy. >> Oh, it's noisy all the time. >> All the time. I think the most the biggest impression though is as you're getting ready to fall asleep um before you're asleep, you see like little like little pieces of light with your eyes closed and it's dark. Um and the reason I guess it's it's a radiation I think that's coming and so that it's not like what your eyes are seeing. It's some radiation that's hitting some part of your brain which is triggering a vision of this little light flashes which is a little bit bizarre. Um I I don't wouldn't say it's scary, but it's a little unnerving because then you're just like what kind of radiation am I getting up here and I'm not protected. You know, that's that's um some of those long-term effects of being in space and are I think in just in general health-wise a little worrisome. So um you want to protect yourself as much as possible. >> So what's the health cost you pay when you come back? So like so I mean initially when you come back you're you're not feeling very good but that that goes away pretty quick. >> What are you feeling like the moment you land on Earth? Yeah. >> Back after like 286 >> for me nauseous like a little sick and it didn't help that this time we landed in the water and then at you know everybody was concentrating on the dolphins that were there um outside of the capsule. But if you look at all the while the dolphins are swimming or when we landed we went all the way over and then back up again. And it was funny because the thought in my head was like, "Oh no, if we turn over all the way upside down, that's not going to be good." But, you know, it was just sort of like casual thought like that, like, h, that's not going to be good. And then we came back up and we're sort of bobbing for a second like a cork. Like, so if people don't feel good when they're on a boat, think about it that way. >> Um, you feel a little bit nauseous and you're going to feel nauseous anyway. For me, I always feel a little nauseous when I come back. The neurovvestibular system has not been working while you're up in space. it sort of shut down and you have other feelings of orientation while you're up there. You your the way our we evolve our inner ear for balance is not is not needed while you're up in space because gravity's not affected on it. So so anyway when you come back all of a sudden gravity's a player and then you for me I felt pretty nauseous for like uh 24 hours and what's something that's uh provocative as you say as they say is like getting out of your spacuit when you put it over your head and pitch your head up like that. um that really makes you feel a little sick. So, we get out of we are getting out of the spacecraft and we get out with on a like a sort of like a a little seat uh with people helping us because there's a big hole in the in the spacecraft for where the cargo is and so nobody wants to trip and fall getting out first of all because you're not feeling too good and then they just take us to the back where we can get out of our space suits. Um, right after that though, once you're out of your suit and you uh not feeling like you're going to throw up, you can stand up and um we walked up the stairs to where the helicopter was and took us out of there. >> So that still nauseous for me for about 24 to 48 hours is the big thing. And usually you'll see people with somebody helping them, supporting them, just because all the little balance muscles that you use here on Earth that you don't even realize and the small muscles in your neck, all of that has to get recharged again. >> And so that takes for me, you know, realistically to get all the way back about a month. And we work with our physical trainers to for some certain exercises. They and they give us tests along the way to see how we're doing, see how we're improving. And it's actually pretty cool to see your body like come back to human self again, you know, [laughter] to earthly self again. So >> So you feel you like when you come back for that month when you're trying to acclimatize, adapt to the earth again, do you feel like things are falling or like if you pick up the pen and it's just going to go like that? Like do you get these things? >> You um >> because I saw a video of eating, you know, the liquid pineapple juice. that I saw that >> you it happens for a little bit but you you'll you'll learn pretty quick that or gravity is the you know predominant force in on this on this planet so you can't get away from it so it's [laughter] here >> it's not but you learn like pretty quickly but do you >> like you'll do something stupid first like I'll just drop this bottle like oh okay never mind so you do you do one thing and then it's then it's like you're back yeah >> and is [clears throat] it like more difficult for you to book after you come back for >> No, no, not really. It's not difficult. You're just going to potentially fall over. So, [laughter] so I mean just because of balance. So, you need that's why somebody usually helps. I was just looking at the >> even that month. >> Oh, no, no, no, no. Just just for like two days or something. Yeah. Yeah. And um and usually I we don't drive for a little bit just cuz you know you're just reaction time might be a little bit slow and so somebody will take us drive us to where we need to go for the first week or >> and all your senses do do they work differently when you come back like the sound the smell? uh I think uh enlightened to what's here on Earth. Like I remember distinctly on my first mission we landed in the desert in California and the s when as soon as I opened the hatch the smell of dirt and sage cuz there's a lot of the sage plant there that smell was so predominant like wow like I could just we're back on a plant you know on planet earth again so it was it was wonderful it was nice cuz you things that you miss like all of that that and like wind those are like things that you really like oh my gosh I feel this and being [clears throat] in the first time in a shower feels really really good. Not just not cuz you're necessarily dirty because we don't really get dirty up there. We just sweat and then you know take a a sponge bath. Um but just to feel something falling on you that's really nice. And one of it's funny one of the one of the other things that um Don Pettit and I had this conversation like you know what I really miss is a sink. Like just to go someplace and put your hands under wash your hands and then wash your face. those things you just miss versus just squirting water and then rubbing it on yourself, you know. So, I don't know. There's just different funny things like that that get little triggers. Yeah. >> You when you came back, the first thing you ate was the wedge grilled cheese sandwich. >> Oh, yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. >> Because it reminded you of your father. >> Yes. Yes. Well, it's funny. I had that before I flew on my first flight for sure from my father and I was thinking about coming it coming back up again and I was like h this will be smooth [laughter] won't be hard to get if I throw up and when I came back to earth specifically this time uh over the last couple years my husband has started to make homemade bread and uh I couldn't think of a better thing to eat than a grilled cheese with his homemade bread was like putting those two together h so good [laughter] >> what did Did it taste like? Did it remind you of your father? >> Oh, yeah. Yeah. Remind of my dad, of course, just just just because he ate grilled cheese all the time and uh just it was yummy cuz we didn't we don't have really good bread, you know, we have little teeny loaves of bread up there and tortillas and so having really good bread and having cheese, which is which like a little bit of a luxury in space. We get it every now and then um but we don't have it on a regular basis up there. We have some canned cheese on the Russian side, but um just every now and then we get a specialty like a chunk of cheese, but we don't really have cheese all the time. >> You you were close to your father, right? >> Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. >> What do you miss about him the most? >> Um I think I miss just going for a walk with him. That's uh that was always nice. I mean, he was he was one of these types of people who could really go for a walk and observe um everything around him. And not that he's talking about it all the time, but he might just stop you for a second and then tell you something and just, you know, just having a nice conversation with him. >> You know, you you you're so accomplished. You've done so many things. And somebody asked you about your father and you said that your accomplishments are relatively way easier than your father. Like your father is much more accomplished. Why did you say so? >> Oh, I I absolutely believe that. you know, one, you know, he did a lot of those things, his life, accomplishments in his life on his own, like just went out there and did it. I feel like I've been sort of guided uh by having a military career and then, you know, >> not necessarily being told, but like, hey, this is the opportunity or this is the what you're supposed to be doing. And so, I'm just doing things. And then then some advice from from some friends like I mentioned about becoming an astronaut. Um, that's all just sort of it seemed like it was easy and it was piled on each other. Not necessarily easy, I shouldn't say it that way, but like it was obvious when things became obvious. Whereas my for my dad, I think about somebody making the decision, trying to make the decision, what do I want to do when I grow up? I have to um if I want to go to school, I have to have really good grades or I'm not going to get in school. You know, I I want to go to medical school. It's was very com competitive. It is very competitive here in India. It's in competitive in the United States too, but I I would say >> uh more so here. And um and he didn't have his parents to help him or to guide him. He just decided he was going to do it and decided like this is how I have to live. I I'm going to go to boarding school. I'm going to go to medical school. I'm going to somehow figure out a way to come to the United States and practice medicine there and see how that is and decide whether or not I'm coming back or going. And I mean, I have my brother over there, but that's it. I don't know what this journey is going to be like. I mean, for us, we like get on a plane and we go someplace across the c around the globe or on a spacecraft and he had to get on a boat. That whole experience and part of the reason he ate cheese was cuz the first time he ate cheese was on the ship that he was coming over here. He didn't know what it was. He was like, "What is this plasticky thing?" [laughter] But he um so after that he liked cheese and then he ate grilled cheese because he didn't really know >> what to make and how to make stuff when he came to the United States right away until he got some friends and you know gathered with them and then was able to make some other food. But grilled cheese was his go-to because it was easy. He knew it was vegetarian. It [laughter] was good. >> Do you still measure your success against his? I no I just I just when people ask about it I just I think to myself like oh gosh don't make such a big deal about it because there's other people who have done some incredible things um and had to plan it out do it all on their own and so that's why I I feel like his accomplishments were so much more um brave and courageous than mine. >> And you you you don't take compliments well do you? [laughter] Well, I feel like I I I know myself, right? And I'm not extraordinary. I'm just somebody who has put their head down and and done some stuff and has didn't take no for an answer. But I'm not extraordinary. And I say that to you because I think there's many more young astronauts out there. And I I they'll probably be doubting themselves at some points in time. And that's okay. But that they can do it. You know, this is not an extraordinary feat. Wow, you're extraordinary. [laughter] I don't know why you think that, you know, you're extraordinary and I'm sure like 99.99% people will feel about that. >> Oh gosh. >> Probably like 01% somewhere thinking otherwise. >> No, I I'm ser but I I feel I I mean I honestly uh feel this way like if I could do these things, anybody could do these things. I had a hard time in college, [laughter] you know, and I there was subjects in high school that I still had hard times with, you know, like people are are they can do it. We're smart. I mean, I think sometimes we just don't tap our potential. >> Yeah. You know, because you're talking about your father, I always feel like I like asking this question, so I want to go ahead and ask you, what do you wish your father would have seen in you before he left? >> Oh, wow. Um umh that's what I I remember him saying one time I'll just I don't know if I'm going to answer your question exactly but I remember him saying I was after like my first flight or something um maybe my second flight and we were talking about space and he goes he goes you know a lot about space [laughter] and I said dad I know a lot about space because I live there like of course I know a lot about space. I would say you know like I grew up in Nita Massachusetts right I would say you know a lot about Nita Massachusetts we grew up there so [laughter] like it's the same type of thing which was just sort of funny for me to have him uh say that which was and and then we we had a good laugh about it. Um, but [gasps] I think I you know it's funny. I think after I became a a test pilot and an astronaut, he was you know we were he was doing his life, I was doing my life after I graduated from college. So I don't think he knew exactly and my mom either what I was doing. Um, they all came to my test pilot school graduation and I think it was it was enlightening for them to see all of the aircraft that we were flying and what we were doing because before that I was in the Navy and I was deploying and going away. Um, and so I don't think it was tangible because it was so out of like the realm of what uh folks in my family were doing at that time. Um, like exactly what we're doing. But when they saw all the different aircraft and helicopters and and heard a lot about that, I think uh both of both of my parents at that point in time were a little surprised that I went down that path. Like they knew that was going on, but they really didn't see it until that time because all the aircraft were there, all my classmates were there. And then as when I became an astronaut, I think there was a little bit of the same thing. It seems different from everything our family was doing. So, it's hard to really put your hands on it. Um, but when they all went to my first launch to see a space shuttle launch out of Florida, I think that like was an eyeopening experience for everybody like, "Wow, this is this is serious. We launch on rockets." My sister who said such a funny thing. I called her once I got to the space station. I said, "What was your impression? What was you?" Because I like to hear what people's impressions are. Like, what was it like? She goes, "Oh my god, it was nighttime launch, too." She goes, "Oh my god, there was so much fire." [laughter] And I said, "Yeah, that's what's at the bottom of rockets. It's fire. That's how they go." You know, and [laughter] uh but it was it's funny because I think at that point in time, people realized what this is all about. And I think my father at the same time figured out like, "Wow, she's actually going to space." >> And um I I think he was the one who gave me the Bhagavad Gita. He was the one who gave me the upnids on my second flight. And um I think he was just like you're you're you have a unique experience and uh stay grounded live and live in the moment. >> You you carry Bhagat Gita and Lord Ganesh till with you right because your father gave it to you. So does it still feel the same or does it feel different now? >> Um >> like when you carry Bhagat Gita with you now when your now that your father's not with you. >> Yep. Yeah. I mean it's a little a little piece of him is with it all. Of course. I mean that's that's why I'm I'm Indian, right? That's that's why that's because of him is I think a lot half at least half of my personality is because of him and and understanding of the universe around us is because of him. >> So what part of it feels different now? Um um since he's not here, uh it's it seems like he's part of all of that, which is sort of interesting thought process. I didn't think about that before, but like since he's not with us, he's part of all of that uh that you feel and you study is in the universe. >> He's not here just to be like next to me to tell me about the plants and the trees and the birds. He's part of all of that. Nice. And what specific trait you would say you inherited from your father? >> Um >> is there any because you've said that you got your Slovenian stubbornness from your mother. >> Oh yeah, you've heard it. Yeah. Yeah. [laughter] Yeah. I think uh from my father I'm very lucky to be to have the ability to stop and just observe around me. Uh, I like this one picture Don Pettit took of me in the Koopa because um, and my friend Tracy took one that was like this, too. It's It's nice to just have some moments of time, not when you're taking a picture or trying to do something, when you can just stop and look at what's going on around you. I did not get that from my mom. My mom is very, very, very active, but my father had the ability to just um be one with with the world for a moment. Uh maybe it's on a walk, but maybe it's sometimes just hanging out. >> Did any part of you change after he's gone? >> You know, um I miss him physically, you know, cuz it's always nice to just be able to talk to somebody, but at the same time, you know, his passing was very peaceful and I feel like he was he was ready to go. It was funny. It was very interesting when he passed away. We uh my sister and I were just coming in to see him and he just passed and he was I think he was just in a peaceful place cuz he was he was up and around maybe a half an hour before we had were there and so I think he was just sort of like it's my time to go to the next place and it'll be okay. >> So that made us feel okay too. Mhm. [laughter] >> And you so when you carry Lord Ganesh with you, you said like it's been your good luck charm. It's been always there all around your house. You always carried with you. Do you see your father in that energy now? >> Um >> with Lord Ganesh like >> not not [clears throat] as a person, you know, like it's funny like I saying it's his it was his time to leave and and move on to the next thing, right? So uh as I see that as part of who I am because of him. M >> but you don't feel like there's some invisibly he's watching you from somewhere. >> Oh absolutely I know I know he's watching yeah his his spark is there as he would say his spark is there watching me all the time >> you know because we talking about your father and Lord Ganesh and Bhagwat Gita I have to ask you the most obvious question is >> how does India look like from the space? Yeah. So, India uh is sometimes tricky to get a picture of cuz it's a little bit hazy at times. >> Um but sometimes it's awesome. Um so it just depends on one the weather. Uh but there's now and I don't remember this from last like a trail to come to see India because there's fishing boats in the Gulf of Arabia off this off of the coast of India on the west side. There's different parts of different fishing boat uh sections in the world, but it's definitely on the west coast of India. Um, and it's so weird because I thought to myself, how could these be fishing boats? What how could I see a boat? There's no way. Cuz like in the daytime sometimes you can't see the boat, but you can see the wake cuz the wake goes on for miles. But they must have amazing lights. And for whatever reason, if they're looking into the water or if they're trying to attract fish or whatever they're trying to do, I don't know, but you can see these big plots of fishing boats all over the place. So, that's new for nighttime and you can see that coming in. Um, and then at night, which is India is pretty spectacular cuz the cities are lit up. It's white lights and all those lights seems to be like connected. It's almost like when I see it, I think of like nerves like pictures people have of when they like tell you like there's a nerve problem and these nerves are connected d like all of this little connections. India is like that. It's like very connected with lights at night. So that's that was one big impression this time that I didn't remember from last time. Last time uh more so um looking at India in the daytime and the colors are amazing. The Himalayas are absolutely amazing. And you can you can sort of see where it like I've said this before, it feels like where the plates bumped up into each other and and made the you know made the mountains. Um and then the coast is obviously cool because you can see particularly on the east side uh when the rivers run off how they interact with the water on that side, the different colors and swirls from that side. And then at one point in time I took a picture of the interaction between India and how do we call it nowadays? Sri Lanka. >> Yeah. >> Um um and it seems like there's a connection there. I'll just say that. [laughter] >> I'll say that. I think I think that picture took a there was a little bit of a discussion about that picture, but it it looks like there is you know they absolutely could be connected. >> Yeah, there must be some >> there's something there. >> There's something connected. [laughter] Maybe we leave it out there like that. >> Yeah. Yeah. Leave it out there. >> What's And when you look out of the window, okay, this is my sci-fi brain talking, okay? So, just don't doubt me on this question, but I'm still going to be What's the strangest thing you've seen in the space which you think is going to be hard to believe for people here? >> Oh, interesting. Um, uh, two different things that were different or have been different. Um there's a lot of communication satellites up there now, Starlinks. >> And so you can this time uh 10 from 10 years ago, they fly across the the view like you see the stars of course as they're coming, but they fly across the view which is like whoa, what where did these all come from? And um there's which is great because there's a lot of communication now on Earth because we have these constellations of satellites. But there is it was an impression like there is a lot of stuff in orbits around the planet. Um the other thing which was really cool this time uh and we were able it's hard to see with the naked eye but we have some really great cameras and we were able to take pictures not me in particular but Don Pettit and and Matt Dominic of blue jets and red sprites coming out of a thundercloud like energy coming up. Um, it's out there because Nicole Ayes took some after we left, too. And I think those are posted. Um, just amazing that we were able to take pictures of energy coming out of a thundercloud and out of lightning. >> Wow. >> Yeah, that was pretty amazing. So, there's there's just and I had no idea those things existed. People knew they were existing, but it was hard to actually document it. And now the cameras that we have, we can we can document that. So, all of that's pretty pretty amazing. Don was able to also with his camera because these are things you can see. You can see the Milky Way. Like it's amazing to see so many billions of stars out there, but he was and it's hard to take good pictures, pinpoint pictures of stars because we're moving so fast. >> Mhm. [clears throat] >> He rigged up with a little gear box, uh, something to copy the orbital rate as we were flying so he could pinpoint the pictures, pinpoint the stars, and then the lights on the Earth were a little bit blurred. That's backwards of how um normal cameras or normal setups would would would do it. So those pictures are out there also from Don Pettit if anybody gets a moment to take a look on the internet. >> Incredible pictures. So I I had the luxury of being up there with some amazing photographers that were able to do that. >> Do you do you believe there's some life out there? >> Absolutely. With those billions of stars out there, you know, we're just a little planet around one star. So yeah, there's life out there. Um, I mean there's life on Earth in places we never thought they could be. Right at the bottom of the ocean with the thermal vents that are coming up, there's light things that live without uh great pressure without light um in the darkness. So yes, and strange gases [laughter] um that we found actually on our second spacew walk, Butch did some swabbing on the outside of the spacecraft. There's microbes that live on the outside of the space space station. Yes, they're probably from us because they're in the vicinity of where there's some gas vents whenever we vent overboard. Um, so sure, they probably came from us because they're right there. But what it proves to us is something can live in the vacuum of space with the heat heating and cooling. So that's more, you know, you know, proof in the pudding that something can live out there. Um, even as close as uh the moons of Jupiter. >> Mhm. >> Uh, thinking that one of them, at least Europa, I think it is, is has water on it. Uh, it' be nice to drop a spacecraft over there and drop a rover through the ice and see what's going on. And there's some plans to do that as well. But if there's water, there's probably something. Um, there's obviously, you know, evidence of water on the moon and on Mars or some type of liquid, right? So there might be might have been something on Mars at least that we could potentially go see if we go there. >> So >> do you think there's some species around there? >> Um there might be. Who knows? Who knows? We have to go and see. >> You believe in the possibility but you don't know. >> Yeah. Yeah. I mean I don't think it's humans for example. But but there's some type of some forms of life potentially. >> Interesting. >> But potentially. >> Okay. I've like last two three questions for you. >> Yeah. And one of them is tell me the most beautiful thing you've seen. >> I I mean I really think the aurora and one of the really huge benefits of us being up there all of the summer of 24 this year also or last year in 25 but we weren't there [laughter] thankfully. But uh in 24 this summer we had some incredible uh aurora because of solar activity and uh such that the aurora came down. Usually you look out the window and you can see it over there like you're looking and like, "Oh my god, that's amazing. Look at it. It's so great." We're taking pictures out the side so you can sort of see the Earth. This time we flew essentially through the aurora. It was low enough. Our orbits 51.6° so it came down somewhere in that vicinity and it was amazing. like not only like what you typically see of green lights, but you also we also saw pinks and then some purple which means you know that was stronger and there was interacting with other um um elements uh in our in in the vicinity of our magnetic field. So pretty impressive and humbling when you think about it. First time I saw Aurora was on my first flight on a spacew walk and um it was below me and I was like whoa, you know, thinking like um the energy that's out there in the universe is just incredible and something that we could we we worry about energy here on this planet all the time, but there's more out there that we could never even think about harnessing. So, you know, how do we how would we do that, right? It's amazing. So, um that was just mind-boggling and incredible. Yeah. >> Interesting. >> Yeah. Before you set a foot on your first flight, you saw what happened with Kalpna Chabla and then she's she was an incredible mo woman. Absolutely. Inspiration for all of us and role model. Yes. >> Yeah. Like she was she was a friend of yours. She's a role model >> and you saw >> her death. >> Uhhuh. >> Did that event change anything you >> or the way you look at death and life? Because you were taking the same kind of path and she's a friend and she's a role model. She's the first Indian-American woman to do all of these things and you're going to be the next. So, did that change anything you about death? >> I think the not about death, but about the I think the desire to explore more. Uh I know that um her and her crew mates, you know, that's was in their heart. I mean, they were doing some really fundamental science to help us with the space station and understand how we do how the processes work so we can make do even more incredible experiments um while we're up there and then continue this fact of us being able to live for longer in space and then how we can move on. I mean I knew I knew all of them and a couple of them very well really good friends and not only Kulpna but um that was like what was in their heart you know Dave Brown was a really good friend part probably one of the reasons I came to NASA was because I knew him a long time beforehand and he was one of those people who was like sunny this job is for you and so I knew in his heart I know in Kulpna's heart that this is what they wanted to do so I think it g gave us even more of a feeling of like we really want to continue this. We've got to do this in their memory. And same with Challenger. And that's why we continue to fly the space shuttle after Challenger. Like, we can do this and we can do this better and we're going to learn more about this. We're not going to let their um you know, situation put a stop on it. They wouldn't want that. So, we're just going to we're going to press harder. Um and we I think we all know that there's risks involved in this, but we've learned so much from each misstep. I would say we learned from uh Challenger, we learn of course we learned from Apollo 1 and foremost the Russians have learned there a lot of things from soy use issues as well and we've learned from Challenger. We've learned from Colombia. We learned from Starlininer. I mean one of the like the I think the best things about Starlininer is some of those thrusters are on other spacecraft. How do how do we now we need to understand a little bit more about this and make those spacecraft better? and what are the questions we didn't ask and we can ask those questions for the next spacecraft that we're we're going to fly. So, um it didn't scare me. It got me ready ready to go and and >> happy to explore in their name. >> And so, when you're strapping yourself in the rocket in that moment, are you like super optimistic or you are going with a thought that you're prepared to die? Whatever happens, we'll take care of it. >> I think we're not super optimistic and not prepared to die. either one of those things. I think we're ready for uh I mean it was sort of like come on. It's like a game, right? It's sort of like uh like at the beginning of a football match, right? And everybody's pumped up and they're ready to take on the responsibility of whatever action's going to happen, right? They're ready. I think that's how we felt at least, you know, Butch and I getting into we're ready for this. We're ready. Let's go. We know we know what we can handle. We know what we're supposed to do. Like let's just let's go. Bring it on. [laughter] >> There's no other thought. >> Yeah. No, no. It's >> But you do those VR uh simulations, right? In that, do you do you see yourself maybe never coming back or doing something or no? You're like just never thought. >> Oh, no. Like there's a there's a VR thing that we do for uh this backpack that we have on on the back for our spacew walks, right? That is uh to me scary because there's you know you have to practice a little bit to figure out how to fly or with the orbital mechanics to get yourself back to the space station. And when you're learning this um for me I wasn't a natural right from the get-go. I I figured it out and I have a plan. But what so the first time I did it you know I think I missed the space station by like inches and you can't do anything because you're out of gas and like ah and you float away and that would be bad. Um it leaves an impression on left an impression on me like you're just sitting here with goggles on and you're sweating because this is you're working trying to figure out how to solve this problem and nervous that you're going to float away. Um such that there's just probably 99.9% I will never uh get myself in that situation. I can't say 100% but whenever I got to a work site a tether down a second tether down okay now I can take my hands off [laughter] like it left such an impression that you would really never want to get yourself in that situation like I don't ever want to have this happen to me never >> sure >> so >> the last question yeah >> is what's one question you wish people would have asked you >> oh uh um oh I so my biggest takeaway from this flight was really not there there's lots of technical uh things that we learned right like I just mentioned that we could pass on and make the next flight better for make make the hardware better ask the right questions maybe do the engineering process better right all of that is huge lessons learned but the biggest lesson learned is when I came back and again we could talk about the press and how maybe the narrative was a little blown out of proportion in my in my um perspective But uh people would be like, "I'm so glad you came back." People I don't know. I I don't know even what country they're from. I don't know what nationality they are. I don't know what ethnicity they are. I don't know what religion. I don't know what politics there are from all over the world. We're like, "I'm so happy you're back. You know, welcome home. Thankfully, we're praying for you. We were thinking about you." Whatever. You know, and my overall lesson learned from this is like people are good. People are nice. And as human beings, we we care about each other. And it seems like that gets lost with a lot of distractions and noise that are going around. And we just need to listen to each other cuz people are good. >> Does it get you overwhelmed when you talk about it? It bums me out a little bit because I had to go through this process to see that and that's why I keep talking about it because I hope that other people don't have to go through a process. I I hope we would just stop and listen to each other and realize how good human beings are. >> Yeah. >> I I I can see your eyes getting teared up. >> Yeah. No, human beings care about each other and we forget that. We fight over stupid things which is unfortunate. Well, thank you so much for doing this. It was an honor to speak to you, but it was incredibly good. We just need Thank you so much for doing this. >> Thank you so much. Then thanks to your team. You guys are very patient. [laughter] >> Hello. >> Hi. >> How are you? >> Hello, Raj. >> Hi, Raj. Nice sunny. Nice to meet you. >> Nice to meet you. >> Hi, guys. >> How are you? >> We're honored to have you. >> Oh, thank you so much. >> What do you read? What do you usually read? I have read just mostly technical stuff more more [music] recently. Last 10 years of my life have sort of been all consumed by this flight. So um um so that and and commercial crew so I haven't had a lot of just nice reading. I'm reading a funny little book right now about I got it as a gift from Slovenia about weird little Slovenian things which is fun. But I actually more so like uh [music] what is it called? >> Like fictional history. Which book were you reading? I'm interested in this. >> Uh like about um Einstein. >> Mhm. [clears throat] >> Um >> and then there was some other other ones. Um >> but I haven't read them for a little while. But anyway, I liked reading about the people. Yeah. >> Thank you so much for watching this podcast till the end. Please let us know in the comments what all did we do right so that we can improve and keep doing that better and what all did we do wrong so that we never repeat it. And at the same time, please give us suggestions of who's the next guest that you want to see on the podcast. And don't forget to share this episode with at least one person who will get some insights because one conversation is enough to give people enough ideas to change their lives. I'll see you next time. Until then, keep figuring out and also don't forget to subscribe the channel. [music] [music] [music]
