Phelps, of course, is the most decorated Olympian [music] of all time. If he was a country, he would have the third most swimming medals ever. Where did this obsession of winning come from? >> Hating to lose. I hate to lose more than I enjoy winning. How did this come up? >> One thing my coach took out of my vocabulary was the word can't, because it's going to be exponentially harder since you told yourself you can't. 28 medals. The second youngest male swimmer to qualify for a US Olympic team. And what goes on in your head before even the race has started? >> When I'm on the block, nothing. I'm like a dog trying to get out of the cage. Like I'm just Did you use any psychological warfare sort of tactic against your competitors? I'm taking care of me and I'm focusing [music] on what I need in that moment. I don't give a [ __ ] about my competitors in that moment. When I'm on the pool deck, it is a full-blown war. I want to absolutely destroy them. Was there anyone you secretly feared as a competitor? No, I beat everybody. I don't care who you are. I'm the shark in the water. If I smell that smallest ounce of blood, I'm going to destroy you. Watch me take it. Tell me about that phase, which is your 2008 Beijing, where you won eight gold medals. History in Beijing for Michael Phelps. Eight for eight. For those two years, I felt unbeatable in the pool. I literally felt like there wasn't a single soul on the planet that could touch me, that could beat me. In an interview which you gave, the interviewer asked you that you have won 28 Olympic medals in your life, and you said no, there's 23 that count. >> I medaled in 28 out of 30 of my races at the Olympic Games. 23 are only the ones that we need to talk to. Silver is losing? You're second, you lost. Third place, you lost. I don't talk about the other five. It's going to be gold. It's going to be a new world record. Once I did make that Olympic team, when I got fifth, I was pissed because I didn't want a piece of paper that somebody said congratulations, you came and competed. I came because I wanted something around my neck. I'm there to hear my national anthem play. That's it. Tell me the first time you won the gold medal. >> I couldn't get caught up in that one moment, even though it was special. So, that gold medal is like, all right, finished, what's next? Walk me through four, five techniques or certain things that you would do in that five, six years of training, where you were truly preparing to win gold. We'd start in the morning with a training session. Eat plates of food for breakfast, go home, take a nap, wake up, eat something else, go back to the pool, go home, eat, sleep, wake up, and do it all over again. Every day for six years? Six-year stretch where I didn't miss a single day. A lot of people say why, and I say why not. There wasn't a single person on this planet during those 20 years, pretty much in my career, that was more prepared than me. That's why I got the results that I got. >> [music] >> Five Olympic Games, 28 medals, 23 of them gold, 39 world records. If this man was a country, he would have been the third highest country with the medals. There is no other human being, there is no other athlete in the world who has achieved this much in a single sport as much as this person has achieved. He's a beast, he's a maniac. He's achieved numbers that no human has ever touched. He's achieved numbers that might never be touched again. And for six years straight, this man trained every single day. No Sundays off, no holidays, no Christmas, nothing. No excuses. How did he build this beast wild mindset? While the world was moving, he was training like a maniac. He was obsessed trying to be better, faster just by 1 second, just by half a second. And today, on figuring out, we're sitting with this beast, the absolute goat. It's an honor to do the podcast with Michael Phelps, the greatest athlete, the greatest Olympian, the athlete which has never existed before and the world has never seen. And in this conversation, we're going to figure out what it actually takes to absolutely become the champion and to build a mindset of a beast so that you kill every time you enter the arena. This podcast is like the masterclass of an athlete mindset. If you want to win this year, watch this till the end. >> [music] >> You know, actually, before I even I even start this, how about for 0.01% people who have no clue who you are, why don't you tell us, Michael, who are you? I was a swimmer at one point in my life. Um I won a couple gold medals, broke a couple world records. Um competed in five Olympic Games. Um I'm a father of four now. I have four boys, nine, seven, six, and almost two. Um Yeah, and I think a lot of what I try to do now is >> [snorts] >> is really promote healthy and active lifestyles, whether that's water safety with my foundation, um or it's really trying to open up the world to the importance of mental health. Um you know, I think for me going through what I went through the tail end of my career, um really helped me explore more about who I am. Um but also, I think with me showing my vulnerability and opening up and talking about the struggles that I go through, I've been able to hear others or see others that have become vulnerable around me and shared what they go through. Um and for me, I think the second part is way bigger than the first part. Um because the second part we're dealing with life and death. The first part was awesome. But like, don't get me wrong, it was incredible hearing my my national anthem play and you know, winning a bunch of gold medals, but you know, the fact that life and death is also in play with so many people, I think I I just heard a stat. My wife just sent it to me yesterday. It was This is kind [snorts] of crazy to me. Suicide's the second leading cause of death for people 10 to 34. So, for me, that's why I say the second part is so much it's so much bigger. Um you know, just being again, being able to save a life uh is a thousand times better than winning an Olympic gold medal. Um and for me, just being able to have the platform that I had, that I have, um to give me the chance to to speak what I'm passionate about is is really special. Let's try to understand both the phases of your life. Part one, part two. But before we go there, I want to understand something about you when you were a child, like from the beginning. Tell me, what do I need to understand about you when you were 10 years old? You [snorts] were unable to sit in a class. You saw your parents' uh relationship falling off. You were restless and not able to just cope up with everything which normal kids do. Yeah. What do I need to understand about that Michael? Um I mean, I I I I I I I I I and everything that came after. Yeah, I mean, [snorts] I think for me, uh you know, going back even before 10, you know, when I was 7 years old, I was you know, nonstop kind of bouncing off the wall. You know, I was always around the pool. My my two older sisters swam, so I was around the pool all the time, so water safety was uh something that was a big priority for my mother and and you know, once I was in the water and I was safe there, you know, I was just kind of playing around the pool all the time. So, that's when I got into the water, and then the water was kind of a release for me. Um you know, being able to kind of swim as hard as you want to go faster with, you know, anger, if you might have it, was something that I enjoyed. Um yeah, it wasn't great dealing with anger as a 7, 8, 9, 10-year-old kid. Um but for me, it was an outlet. Uh and it was something that that, you know, I ended up falling in love with, and uh yeah, I mean, I I remember in uh middle school, >> [clears throat] >> I was told uh by my teachers that I would never by excuse me, by a teacher, uh that I would never amount to anything. Um and and I still remember her name and and uh I still remember what she looks like. I still remember where I was sitting in the class. Um and and I think at that point for me, I used it as motivation. Um you know, the the fact that a teacher, number one, would say they're doubting a student and not knowing how to deal with them, I think is saddening, it's upsetting. Um but for me, I was like, watch this, I'm going to prove you. Uh and I think at the time, that was pretty much when I had stopped taking um Ritalin, which was for my ADHD. Uh, so my ADHD I literally was like I was all over the place. I was leaning back in the chair on the back legs, leaving dents on the in on the floor in the classroom, always getting sent to the principal's office, and honestly I just had a really hard time sitting still. Um, and at that point my mom was, you know, I was playing baseball, I was playing lacrosse, I was playing soccer, and I was swimming. I was playing all these different sports just to try to get the energy out of me. My mom was just like I don't know what to do with him. Um, and it's crazy fast forward now to where I'm 40 and I have four kids. It's the same way. >> [laughter] >> Their kids are non-stop. Um, but I think, you know, going back to that point I I think swimming really gave me something to focus on. Um, yeah, I was that well, I still am that kind of ADD, kind of all over the place, jittery, like kind of always moving around. Like that's just who I am. That's my personality. So, you know, I think over time I naturally took something that somebody labeled me with having or being a less than of a kid, I took that into into almost really making it a superpower. Um, because it gave me the ability to focus on things that I was really passionate about. Um, See, your teacher said she must have noticed and the rest of the world just noticed how you were as a kid who restless not able to sit anywhere. What do you think that teacher didn't get or the world didn't get about that kid who was not able to sit properly? Because uh, you definitely had something in you and you >> I just thought she didn't know how to, whether it's a lack of better way of saying it, like I don't I don't think she wanted to deal with me or knew how to deal with me or knew how to handle me or knew or knew how to taught me, teach me, right? Like she didn't she just didn't know. Um, and you know, like for me like my mother has been in education for 50 years. You know, like that's her passion. Her passion is being in the classroom to try to make an impact for a student. To try to help them take whatever they're learning in that year, that classroom, and catapult it to help them into the rest of their life, to help transform them into what they want to be. And all of those steps need to happen, but when a teacher, you know, instantly shuts down on a kid, it just doesn't look good for the teacher. Um, but I mean, >> [clears throat] >> I think I got like a C in her class, so like let's be honest. Yeah. I was kind of like just get me out of here. You know, like that was my least least favorite class that I went to every single day and I sat there. >> class was it? English. I hated English. You [snorts] know, and and maybe it was how she was teaching it to me. Because I had teachers that were great. You know, like I had teachers throughout my my uh, elementary, middle, and high school where they were awesome and they helped me understand when I had problems learning what everybody else was learning faster than what I was learning. Or if I was learning things faster than everybody else, then she gave me he or she gave me stuff to help me stay focused, right? Like that I I I think it's just uh, everybody has a different mind and everybody is able to handle or control as much as they can. Um, and she just didn't know what to do. Uh, it was sad and I'm sure there still are teachers out there in the world that are like that and it is it is unfortunate and it is sad. Um, but to the kids out there who do have an experience like that, know that there are other outcomes that can happen in life. Um, I mean, people doubted me in the swimming pool, too. And honestly, like for me again, it was just it was a form of motivation. That was it. You know, like if somebody wants to doubt me, like I've been on this kick lately where I've just been firing off quotes on Instagram. Just like on my story, just ripping quotes off that just like fit me in the morning. And I'm like I'm I'm I'm a big quotes person and and you know, like throughout my career my coach would always put quotes on the top of the workout. Um, motivating quotes or just quotes that people need to hear that for me that I need to hear. Um, you know, for for whatever you're going through life, so yeah, I can >> Which one's your favorite quote now? I mean, my my favorite quote is actions speak louder than words. You know, like that's that's one of my all-time favorite hands-down quotes because it it's true. You know, like you can say whatever you want, but if your actions don't back up those words, then all it is is just a bold-faced lie, you know? So, you know, for me like throughout my career like I I wanted to, you know, break this world record, win this gold medal, whatever it was, and I knew that there had to be a process on how to get there, right? Like I can't just say it and snap my fingers. There had to be, you know, every single day little baby things that were stacked on top of each other and little baby steps that were heading towards that goal. And if I was taking steps backwards, then I'm just cheating myself. What what do you think you said water became your escape and you were just always in the pool taking out your anger and everything. Like it it became your coping mechanism in some sort and you were always in the pool, right? >> Mhm. What do you think what did water give you emotionally which nothing else could? Um, I [clears throat] mean, my kids call me Aquaman now, so I guess >> [laughter] >> it's kind of the same Um, you know, I I don't know. I think thinking back to it and, you know, kind of being able to dive through my career a little bit inside the pool. Um, I was super sensitive to every little part of the water in my body, right? So, like when I would swim, I'm feeling the water in the palm of my hands. Like that's where I'm feeling all the pressure. So, if my shoulder my my arm or my body is not a certain way, then I'm not able to feel that. So, it's all trial and error and trying to get in the right position. Um, and naturally I think, you know, for me just being submerged in water, I just felt at home. Um, I don't know, for lack of better terms. Like, you know, even that even like now, if I go into a big depression state or I'm just in a grouchy mood for a couple of days and workout hasn't helped and, you know, my normal routine hasn't helped, whether it's the cold tub or the sauna, you know, I'll I'll just get, you know, my wife will just kick me out of the house and say go go jump in the swimming pool. Um, because it's it's kind of like the only place where I I don't have anybody talking to me. I don't have to think about stroke. I don't have to think about what I'm having for dinner or what I'm making for dinner or what I'm doing tomorrow or this or that. I'm just there in the moment. Right? Like I can just be. And I can swim for 500, which is, I mean, minimal compared to what I used to swim. >> [laughter] >> Um, or I could swim 2,000. It doesn't matter. Like just being able to be back in the water, being back into that environment I think is kind of one of my reset switches. Um, that kind of just levels me out. Do you think you were running away from something? Or you were you were swimming away from something or swimming towards something? I think I found swimming, yeah, as an outlet, but I think, you know, the reason why I found swimming is my two older sisters swam as well. So, you know, for me kind of seeing what they were doing and my middle sister Whitney was traveling all over the world and she was on world championship teams. I was like, "Wow, that seems pretty cool." Like she was trying to go to the Olympic Games and I was like, "Yeah, I want to go to the Olympic Games." Like, "Hell yeah, like who doesn't want to go to the Olympic Games?" Um, and I I just kind of followed and and, you know, naturally as a kid if you learn that you get good or you start getting faster, you kind of think how fast can I get? And that's kind of what I did. You know, like from the start until the end of my career I was kind of like, "All right, how how much faster can I get? Can I drop a second? Can I drop a half a second? Can I drop two tenths? Like what is the maximum potential that I have inside of me and how can I challenge myself in different ways?" Um, swimming for me like again, like I would scream underwater. You can't hear me. Like I would call my coach every single [ __ ] name on the planet. Like sorry for profanity, but like like I literally would. Like because there were times where I was so frustrated and so angry and there was nothing else I could do, whether it was like I my body was in pain, I I mentally couldn't do it or I felt like I couldn't do it. Um, I would just scream and then naturally I would still get through it and it would go well and blah blah blah blah blah, but it's like in that moment like for me screaming was one of those things that would just let everything out. Um, and it's something that like, you know, we've taught our kids. Um, again, we have four boys and and the emotions get high. So, you know, we taught them this thing called a lion breath where you take a deep breath and you roar like a lion. And you scream as loud as you can. And again, with I mean, the younger one doesn't scream that much, but like the three older ones it's a lot of noise, but it's again, like we find once they're able to do that, their shoulders drop a little bit and they're able to have that conversation of what big feelings emotions they're going through inside instead of carrying them along through life. Can you show me what what is it? Like what's the lion breath? Uh, you don't want me to scream in here. It's okay. You can just show it like a little bit >> it's just like >> one version of it. >> [sighs] >> Ah, and you obviously you can scream as loud as you want, but it's it's literally just take a deep big, big, big deep breath in and just scream as loud as you possibly can. And naturally like naturally when when you do that, your shoulders do drop a little bit, right? You are able to kind of come back to earth, right? Be your normal self. Like I always joke, there was uh the candy, the Snickers bars commercial. Um it's always they they they always show them here, but it's it's uh it's a commercial where it's like you take a bite of a Snickers and you just feel like you're normal self. Like I feel like that's what that's what it is. Like what Snickers is saying like when you have a sugar low, you eat some sugar and naturally you feel better. But here it's like if you're stressed or you're frustrated and you take that deep breath, you're able to be like huh, okay. So, why am I going through that? What feelings and emotions am I going through? And you're able just to get it all out. Like for me it's, you know, there are a bunch of different things that I do. Um I don't do lion's breath that often, but uh when I'm in the pool it's very easy to do it. Um but yeah, I mean there there's a checklist that I have for my own mental health. So, you would So, you used to scream inside the pool a lot. Or like underwater like >> Underwater, right? >> Like when I was going and taking like when I was doing my streamlines off the wall and I was kicking underwater, I would there were a lot of F bombs that were said. Yeah, that was one of my favorite words to scream underwater. And people could hear it. Honestly like when you're in a set, like person next to me would be like, "Did you just scream?" And you're like, "Mhm, [clears throat] I did. I did." And they're like, "All right, we have one more." And you're like, "Yep, we got one more repeat. Let's go." Um but it it's just it's kind of like in the moment like it it I feel like I needed I needed to do that just to get through. Um and everybody I think probably has something different, right? But that that was just me. It was screaming underwater. It's same thing like when I'm in the weight room now like I I was just traveling overseas and and I was lifting in I think it was Mumbai. And I was in the weight room and I was like grunting. And then like everybody in the gym like looked at me and I was like, "Shit." And I'm looking into a mirror and everybody's face is staring right at you. Um but it's just kind of something that I do. Um I mean I used to do it right when I get up onto the block. You know, right after I did my arm slap, it was something that I would always do, just clear my throat. So, is it you were screaming a lot because you were obsessed with trying to win? Or was it A lot of different things. It was probably yeah, I wanted to win. I wanted to push through whatever I was going through or I was emotionally just ready to snap and screaming was something that would help me. Where did this obsession of winning come from? Was it Hating to lose. But >> I hate to lose more than I enjoy winning. >> Even when you were like 9, 10, 11? How did this come up? I don't know. It was just something I always had. Like I always felt from from when I was a little kid like there was there was there was no second place. That wasn't an option. It's just something that I always I mean like I remember winning home run derby at 10 or 11 years old. Like I was the biggest kid playing lacrosse, playing long stick middie, um just slashing people with the stick. Um yeah, I mean winning winning was everything. Yeah. Do you think it has anything to do with not getting your father's approval when you were a kid? Um the absence of I don't think so. Uh because I I mean I I would say a lot of it probably came from him um because he was he was kind of more of the athlete from my parents' relationship. He was a baseball player, a football player, track and field stud. Um he I think he was the first person to get cut from uh the Washington Redskins back in the day uh when they were the Redskins. So, um winning or trying to be the best is something that that in sports was something that he was he was very good at. Like competition in sports that that was something that he excelled in. Um I would say my sister Whitney and I are uberly competitive, more competitive than my older sister Hillary. Um especially in sports. Um there's there's just Yeah, I mean for us again there was just there was no second place. Um you know, for me it it it ended up becoming preparation, right? Like preparation is everything. If you're not prepared, then you're going to get second or you're going to get third or you're going to get last, right? Because there's always somebody that is overly prepared or more prepared than you are, no matter what. So, for me I just became that person. There wasn't a planet. There there there there wasn't there wasn't a single person on this planet during those 20 years pretty much of my career. You know, I had a couple losses that I can name for through my Olympic career. But there wasn't another person on this planet that was more prepared than me. Not, period. There wasn't. That's why I got the results that I got. It's not rocket science. It's not. I put in the work, I got the results. That's it. Let's let's go to your preparation time and like when you first started with your coach. >> Yeah. And first when your coach spotted you in the same year he went to your mother and said that you're going to win an Olympics or you're going to be in the Olympics, right? What was that story? Tell me about it. My coach came to North Baltimore Aquatic Club where I was swimming where my sister swam. Long tradition of uh of excellence with that club in Baltimore. You know, from 1984 until 2016 there was at least one person on every single Olympic team. Wow. So, my coach came in '96 [snorts] or right before '96, maybe '95. Okay. Um and he was helping my sister's group a little bit. Uh my middle sister's group a little bit prepare for uh Olympic trials and the Olympic Games in '96. And then the group kind of split and he took over a different group. I think I'm thinking I'm explaining this right away. Um and then I remember seeing him while I was that kid playing at the pool. You know, I was only swimming like three days a week. Like I really wasn't training that much back then. And I would always play, play, play and I would see him go up and down the pool, walk, run, arms up in the air, screaming, whistling. And I was like like I remember being like, you know, like if it was me back then what I was thinking, I would be like there's no [ __ ] chance I'm swimming for that man. Like he is an absolute lunatic. Fast forward a year, I spent 20 years 20 plus years of my life with that man and he is my only coach. Um but it it it's kind of crazy because, you know, seeing it you know, I think at that age I was like, "Man, like truly like this guy's nuts." Um but what I learned it was just the passion that he has. And that he that that he had back then that he still has today. Um But did he come to you or you went to him? So, uh I was I was excelling in the group that I was in and and I needed to be in a higher group. And and I was 11 years old at this time and the kids that were in that group were like 14, 15, 18 years old. Like way older, way more mature. Um but I was faster than them. So, I I ended up swimming in that group and and I got to that group and and but before I got there my coach sat down with my parents one night and he's like, "Well, look like if if, you know, your son wants to make the Olympic team in four years, he can make the Olympic team." As an 11-year I I was 11 years old. He said that to you? He said that to me. And he's like, "But look, he's like you got to stop playing baseball, lacrosse, and soccer." But for me like looking back now like those playing those four different sports I think naturally gave me a better body awareness. Like the more I talk to the professional athletes from all sports, all walks of life now, that's the same thing they did. Playing multiple sports. Don't be super hyper focused on one sport. But at a certain time there's then going to be a decision that you have to make. It it's it's just naturally I feel like that's how it is in sports. If you really want to be the best at one sport, there's a you have to make a decision at some point. Um just because of the process of development, this, that, and the other. Um but back then, yeah, he he sat down and said that and I was like, "All right, kind of like fine. Like I'll stop playing these other sports. I'll focus on swimming. No problem." And I just remember back then I I I was I was the Energizer Bunny. Like he basically would wind me up and I would just go. Or he would say jump and I would say how high. Um because he gave me that vision of wanting to go to the Olympic Games. To then make the dream of winning an Olympic gold medal even bigger. Because you know, I just thought about going. And then I'm like, "Maybe I could win, right? Like that would be pretty cool." When you were 11 and he said that to you for the first time that you could go to Olympics in next four years. Did you believe it? Or did you act act like someone who believed it until it actually became true? Uh I believed it because he showed confidence in me. As an 11-year old >> Something that he saw of me in the pool gave him confidence that he could do that. He had already trained and worked with previous Olympic coaches, Olympic athletes, and he saw something. Um and honestly, I think back to the question you asked earlier, like you know, he then became a father figure in my life, right? Because I I mean, I literally spent spent 25 years traveling the world with him, right? So, I mean, like basically my whole entire life was hand in hand with him. Everything we did swimming related was together. Um and and you know, I think once I did make that Olympic team, that really really made me trust him. Because I was like like like for me because I know you said don't skip, but like when I made that Olympic team and I got fifth, I was pissed, but I was hungry. Right? Because I didn't want a piece of paper that somebody said, "Congratulations, you came and competed." That's not why I came. I came because I wanted something around my neck. That's it. So, I remember that day after my Olympic final in Sydney, the workout paper he wrote down, it said WR on the top of it. And for people who don't know, that means world record. And I was like, "What's this?" He goes, "You're going to break a world record in 6 months." And I was like, "Okay. Sure. Let's see what happens." Sure enough, 6 months later, I break a world record. So, like again, like that's where the whole trust really really opened up. Um but but you know, I think through you know, from the time I got with him to the time I was 15, he basically just broke my strokes completely apart. Um like he started from scratch. Uh you know, I I had some good things going on with my body and how I swam and the reach, obviously I have super long arms, long wingspan, short legs, really strong legs, um short but wide. My my [clears throat] my quads are huge. Um so for me like it when I got to him at 11 years old, I still remember back in the day, so the people who don't understand swimming, a six-beat kick is three kicks per one stroke. So, it's one, two, three with your legs per one stroke. So, he was teaching me the importance of a six-beat kick. It wasn't 11, I forget what age it was, but um he said, "Every time you drop your legs in a practice and you don't do a six-beat kick, I'm going to kick you out." And the first day I got through like 500 of a 6,000-yard workout. Kicked me out. Next day, 2,000, kicked me out. Next day, 2,500, kicked me out. Next day, 3,000, kicked me out. Next day, 4,000, kicked me out. By the end of the week, I got to a full workout. And from that day forward, I never dropped my feet for a single stroke of freestyle for the rest of my career. Did I agree with what he was doing? No, it sucked getting kicked out. It was absolutely miserable sitting there watching my friends train and and and be in a practice, but I learned the importance of the small technical points that you have to have in order to be able to go wherever you want to go, right? Like it's almost like a college level class. You can't take the thousand level class without taking the one through nine, right? Like so, there's a process through it all and he taught me that process throughout my career and we were able just to sharpen up those tools, right? Like that's really all it became. Um because you know, throughout my career, we ended up ended up just trying to shave off hundredths of a second. How do you shave off 5/100 of a second? Mhm. Is it a turn? Is it a kick? Is it a streamline? What is it? Is it dive angle? Like what what how do we do it, right? So, it's trial and error. But it all started from those years um when we first started working together. I mean, whether it was mindset, whether it was goal setting, whether it was preparation, routines, um you know, that's where stretching came into play. All that stuff to to just get your body prepared. Um my warm-ups were the same at every single meet from the time that I was 13 or 14 till the time I retired. It didn't change. 8642 or 6442, every single warm-up. Who was more ambitious, you or your coach? Uh you could probably say both of us at different stages of my career. >> [snorts] >> Cuz I think leading up to 2008, I don't think there was anybody more ambitious than me. Post like '04 or '08 to 2012, he was way more ambitious. He wanted and I just wanted nothing to do with the sport. Um and then when I came back, I think we both wanted it. When I came back to finish in '16, um we were both equally as hungry and wanting to do or wanting to finish, I guess, what we had started the right way. Um because I mean, I I've said this and I'll say it a thousand times more, like there's not a coach on this planet that could have helped me, coached me to be able to do what I was able to do. Not a single person. I was an [ __ ] I was a little [ __ ] dude to coach, I know it. And he'd say it, too. Um and I'd say the same about him. But you know, I think again, like it's the passion that we had and and we learned a lot about each other through the process, right? It was you know, he had to adapt, I had to adapt cuz I wasn't that 11-year-old kid that he wanted to start working with when I was 30, Mhm. right? So, just that change that we had to go through was was um was important for us to have the the relationship that we had for as long as we had. You your coach also said people around you or everybody to not to say the word Olympic. What was when was that? What was that story? I mean, my mom when I made the Olympic team in 2000, she like fully decorated the front yard with like all these American flags and like this, that, and the other. And my mom was or my coach is Bob goes, "This is the last time you're ever going to do this. Never again." Um >> What? And and I think because it's like I mean, I think looking back at it now, I would say because the goal wasn't just to make the Olympic team. That wasn't the goal. The goal is to win an Olympic gold medal. Not just be a part of the Olympic Games, but win the Olympic Games. Be a champion at the Olympic Games. So, I think once you get caught up in just making the Olympic team, then sometimes you might slip and not pay attention to the small details that are going to help you be your best self at the Olympic Games. Right? Like I I mean, I see it in I see it with athletes that have been on Olympic teams with me, right? Like they had this dream of making an Olympic team. It's making and that's it. Just getting there. It's not actually doing my best time at the Olympic Games and potentially coming home with hardware. That was my goal from day one when I had my first Olympic race. Get a gold. Yes, but it's how do I get faster than my trials swim, right? For me, I wanted to drop So, in the US, we have Olympic trials and top two people in each individual event get to go. There's over 2,000 swimmers that at that Olympic trials. And a maximum of 52 people will be on an Olympic team. 52 out of 2,000 plus. And those 2,000 will also come from like all over the place. Yeah, so like but like you know, I think it it just like got I just lost a train of thought. What was I talking about? You were talking about your Olympic >> Oh, yeah, yeah. Okay, now I got it. That you always wanted just win the medal. So, yeah, but like for me, like when I made my first Olympic team in 2000, it was about dropping a second from Olympic trials to the Olympic Games. Drop one second. If I can do that, then I'm in I'm in the realm of winning an Olympic medal, right? So, I dropped 98/100 of a second and I missed a medal by less than 3/10. And I had to wait another 4 years to have another chance. How did you feel like you were 15 when you entered Olympics? You were the youngest in the world to do that. Youngest since 1932. And then you you end up coming fifth, sixth? Fifth. How did you feel? First time, 15-year-old, youngest person, fifth. Fifth. Upset. [clears throat] They gave me a piece of paper like you have in front of you that says, "Good job, you competed. You got fifth." I don't want to get fifth. I'm not there to get fifth. I'm not. I'm there to hear my national anthem play. That's it. I mean, obviously, that was a stretch for me at that time, but I think having that opportunity of getting fifth and representing my country and being at the biggest stage at such a young age, I think just only prepared me naturally for what was going to come. But you messed up in your first Olympic Games, right? I think you you forgot your paper. Oh, yeah, I forgot my credential. Well, I didn't forget my credential, I took my roommate's credential. Um I was roommates with another one of the younger guys on the team and and uh I we had our credentials just on like the handle of a door >> Mhm. and I just ended up grabbing his instead of mine. We look nothing alike. So, uh, I ended up going to the pool and they wouldn't let me in the pool. I didn't have my credential. I tried to go back to the village and I couldn't get on the bus or get back in the village because I didn't have a photo of me on my credential. >> [sighs and gasps] >> So, that kind of delayed my warm-up and my process of getting ready. Um, the slightest bit and I mean I don't think that threw me off. I mean because still I didn't even tie my suit before the race. My my strings of my suit were just tucked into my like the top of my suit which is I mean they're not going to fall off. The suits are so tight and so small. They are not going to fall off. No shot. But I mean I just wasn't prepared, you know, I think. The biggest thing I learned from that moment is is just understanding what needs to take place at the most pressured moment. Right? You know, like for me, yeah, I've gone to the Olympic trials, but I never experienced what an Olympic Games was, what a swim meet on different soil feels like. And especially in Australia where swimming is the number one sport, right? I mean the floor was shaking. I remember it vividly. The floor was shaking because there was an Australian in my heat next to me who ended up getting third. I mean like literally like the it was it was vibrating. There was 18,000 people on one side and then all the media and the dignitaries are on the left. And yeah, I mean like everything just threw me off. Like looking back >> was going on in your mind? I was a deer in headlights. Just scared. Not really knowing what the hell to do. But I knew that I had to just get up on the block and race. Um, and that was something that, you know, still to this day like I miss. Like I I loved I loved competing. I loved racing more than anything on the planet. A chance for me to get up versus the rest of the world or versus the like my teammates, my competitors in the US and have a chance to show who is the best. Yes, every single time. Because naturally like I'll always go to that that next level because I I I don't like to lose. So, yeah, getting fifth it was terrible. It sucked. But again, like I truly believe had I got a medal 2004 might have been different. Right? You know, like me falling short of a goal there probably gave me more motivation to rip into that next four years to make sure I don't have that feeling again. I don't have that sadness or that disappointment again. Yeah, it took me a lot to just to make the Olympic team, but still like getting there again, you got to wait four years. I don't want to wait another four years. So again, like I want everything to be perfect when I have that chance. And I think having 2000 I think gave me the chance to do my trial run in 2004 to prepare for what was to come in 2008. So when you >> [clears throat] >> when you came fifth with a paper, you came home and now you're like I don't even know where that paper is. What whatever that thing was, right? Honestly like it's just like like a participation. Like it's just like here and I'm like I don't want it. >> And then you came home and you're thinking like 2004 is going to be my year. I'm going to come back home with gold medal. If I could place a camera in your head, what was going on in your head? Like first day when you just came back from Well, I knew you know, like back to that story of getting back into training the day after, you know, that's something that that naturally athletes don't do coming off an Olympic Games, right? Like you you kind of take that four weeks like two to four four to six weeks four to eight weeks kind of just to recover to get back into that cycle um, to prepare for an Olympic Games, but for me it was right back into it because it in the sport of swimming when you miss one day, it takes you two days to get back to where you were. So if you miss two months, it's going to take you four months to get back to where you were. So for me from 2000 into 2001, I didn't miss a step. Right? I was right back into training. I mean I went back into training. I mean I would say I probably did a 5K over 5K. I think I did like eight 200s or 10 200s backstroke long course in lane one in the Sydney warm-up pool the day after the 200 fly in 2000. And on the top of the paper it said WR in six months at Nationals. And I went to Nationals six months later which are World Championship trials um, for that following summer in Japan. And the last 50 I came back on the existing world record holder at the time Tom Malchow and I ran him down with 10 15 m to go. Um, and I broke the world record 1:54.92. Um and that kind of catapulted me into that next summer. I won my first World Championship at 16 and rebroke the world record. Um, and then from that point forward rebroke it in 2002, rebroke it in 2003, rebroke it in 2004 when I won the gold medal. Um, it was just Did I? No, I didn't break it. I didn't break it in 2000. Not not winning the gold medal, but I did break it in that year in that calendar year. I just won on a tear. Um, and I think kind of once I got that taste of success, like I was saying earlier, that was, you know, for me it was what else can I do? How much faster can I go? And I think that's when we started expanding and swimming different events. Right? Like I was swimming the 200 IM. I started swimming the 400 IM, the 100 fly, the 200 free, the 200 back. Um in 2008 I was the American record holder in the 100 freestyle. Um, I I just became super versatile and that was something that we started back early when I was working with Bob. Um, cuz we had a goal back then of trying to be top 10 in the world in every single stroke. Butterfly, backstroke, breaststroke, and freestyle. You But you took four days off from 2000 to 2004. Pretty much yeah, because I had a wisdom wisdom teeth. >> [snorts] >> And I think maybe like I wouldn't even say I got sick. Like I I mean even if I was sick, I was still in the water. I was still training. Um But you were so obsessed with training and you believe that even one day off is going to take you two days back. Why do you even take four days off then? Well, I had to. Uh, I mean I had to later in my career for certain surgeries. I had hand surgeries throughout my career. Um, but I think at that point it was if I'm not taking the opportunity that I have, then somebody else is going to take that opportunity away from me. And I want the opportunity to be mine. So for me it was, you know, I think it it was all about control. What can you control? I can control not getting sick by taking care of my body. Right? So I think naturally over time I learned how to take care of my body. But did you feel guilty on the days when you were off? Do you feel bad like [ __ ] like >> It sucks. Yeah, like I mean it sucked because I was missing an opportunity and a chance, but once you're going through surgery, if you have surgery, then it's kind of like you need to give your body some kind of recovery. Um I don't think it really hurt taking those days off. Um because I think then after that I it was like I went on a six-year stretch where I didn't miss a single day. Um and a lot of people say why and I say why not. Right? There's no blueprint on how to win eight gold medals. There's no blueprint on how to break 39 world records. There's no blueprint on how to win 23 Olympic gold medals. Um, the only thing you can do is trial and error. Mhm. >> Um, for me, yeah, I mean I I would say I became obsessed. But I think it's that fine line between obsession and passionate that I always flirted with. Um, and I I was over I was overly passionate about trying to be the absolute best. You know, for me at such a young age I I I had a goal of of doing something that no one has ever done in the sport and also changing the sport and taking it to a new level. So there wasn't going to be anybody that was going to stand in my way of doing that. You know, I I looked up to Michael Jordan and what he did, you know, on the court of uh on the basketball court and and, you know, no matter what he was going through physically, mentally, personally. Um, you know, when he was out there performing, he left every single ounce on the basketball court. You know, he had the flu in the flu game, still dropped what? 50, 40, 45? Like Yeah, right. Like there was just no excuses, right? So um, for me every single day is an opportunity to get better. No matter how yesterday went. If you had a bad day yesterday, today is a different day. Period. That's it. You can't live in the past and you can't live in the future. The only thing you can do is live in the present. Walk me through four five techniques or certain thing that you would do in that five six years of training where you were truly preparing to win gold. You know, I'll tell before you actually go there, I'll tell you one of the most watched Michael Phelps video is a clip by me which is funny on the internet >> [laughter] >> because I was researching for this this podcast and I I typed on YouTube the most watched Michael Phelps clip and in that clip I'm explaining where in one interview he said that there was there was a faith in your life probably 6 7 years where somebody's asking you that what was the what's the reason of your success? Why do you win? And you say just train every day. Yeah. And they say that's it. >> the small things. Yeah, I mean >> And then you said no, train every day. >> Yeah. No Christmas. Yeah, I try not to be. >> party, nothing, no flu, just train every day. And that that clip is doing really well for some reason. But explain me what happened in those 6 years. I mean it's it's it basically really is what can you control? What is in your control every single day? And it's like you're eating, you're sleeping, you're drinking water, you're stretching if you're sore, you're lifting if you're trying to get stronger, you're working on your endurance and staying in your endurance level, working on heart rate if that's what you're trying to improve. There's so many different little small things that you can do it depending on what your goals are. >> [gasps] >> So for me it's it's how can I be prepared every single day, right? So like if I go back to that point, you know, after the 2000 Olympic Games, like it wasn't you know, it was probably 2002 2003 where I started doing ice tubs. Right? So it's recovery. How can I how can I recover my body and my mind every single day to make sure that my body, if I'm treating it like a Ferrari and I want it to go that fast every single day I have to recover. I have to treat my body with with love, right? So if I'm not eating, if I'm not stretching, if I'm not drinking water, if I'm not sleeping, if I'm not staying off my feet, if I'm not all of these small things, then I don't have a chance to be my best during those two to four hours when I'm in the pool every single day. So it it became literally a full-time job the age of 15 16 because I mean I was professional at 15 or 16 years old. So I treated it like a job. Um everything I did was eat, sleep, and swim. Sure, I was in school um until I I was in school through high school and then I took 6 months of credits at Michigan and decided that I needed to focus on swimming and that's what I did. Um but yeah, I mean like it it was >> your coach like created >> like we'd start in the morning with a training session and then I would go and eat a bunch of plates of food for breakfast just to recover from the you know 7500 yard workout we just did. Um go home, take a nap, wake up eat something else go back to the pool train for 2 hours go home eat, sleep, wake up and do it all over again. It literally like it became a job at such a young age. Every day for 6 years. >> Every day. Yeah. So But your coach also created adversities during the training. What was what was it like? Why would you train like like put do it in the dark, do it without water, do it >> mean like there were so many different things he tried to do just to or just to mentally prepare us I think for things that we were going to go through or could potentially go through. Tell me worst three. >> Um I mean like he would break my goggles or step on my goggles on purpose to teach me to make sure I had a backup pair. And naturally in 2008 my goggles fill up with water as soon as I dive in and I had to revert back to a training a training habit that I did to help me count strokes to get through that race. And naturally I hit the wall at the right time, but I was able to win and I was able to break the world record, too. So you know, I think the things that he did like breaking my goggles or um you know, like I I've had my suit rip right? And and you know, during that time if you're getting ready for an Olympic final or a world championship final and your suit rips your emotions are going to change, right? So I was able to then because of what I went through, whether it's from the breaking the goggles or or you know going 10 workouts a week where I'm going 10,000 meters every single session and going 100k bang bang bang just every week. Um I think it it just gets you relaxed in those super high-pressured tense moments when all of these lights are on and there's millions of people staring at you. Oh, and by the way, we're swimmers, so we're half naked. You know, so it's like >> [snorts] >> um but but I think that's what it was. Like he was just uh he was obsessed with with being over-prepared. Um you know yeah, it's probably a little psychotic in ways, but um you know, looking back at it I understand why he did what he did, why he challenged me mentally um when things were uncomfortable, right? Like you know, I remember having to swim without goggles. It sucks. Your eyes hurt, right? Like they burn after swimming for 2 hours without goggles. Try to swim a race without goggles. No, it's not fun. Um but after doing that like I I learned. And naturally like my cap rips at the Olympic final as I'm getting ready to get up on the block for the 4 by 200 free relay. I have to naturally calm myself. I asked for uh a teammate's cap and I know that I can't represent his brand and I know I can't represent his name. So I had to flip the cap inside out and just swim with the black cap. But in that moment you're calm because you've prepared for it, right? So like I mean even like visualization, visualization is something that that we did my whole my whole entire career. Uh and it would be three different ways how you want or you would play three different tapes how you want the race to go, how you don't want the race to go and what if, right? And how and and and what if this happens in the race, how do you how do you adapt? How do you adjust, right? So it doesn't matter what happens. Whenever I get there, I'm prepared. If I lose, if my cap rips, my goggles break, they fill up with water, it doesn't matter because my emotions will stay in check. And if you can handle your emotions in the most tense pressured situations, then you're able to be the best version of you, right? So like you know, going back to 2008, I think it was you know, for me I think it was you know, lack of better terms, it was like I I was in the matrix. Like literally time slowed down. Like I was just like, all right, cool. Like I'm more prepared. Let's go. But it's preparation. And it's again, yeah, had I not done those 6 years, I probably don't get the exact results that I had. You know, like we always this is something that that um I always hope that people can relate to, but um when you're trying to accomplish a goal you know, obviously it's not going to happen like that. It's not going to happen overnight. There has to be like little short in-term goals through that process to reach the big goal. So through that process my coach and I would always say you know coming to practice that's a deposit into the bank. Right? And 4 years from now, I hope our bank account is massive because when we go to the Olympic Games, I want to withdraw that whole entire account and just put it on the table and say let's go. Right? So it's it's again, it's just a way of looking at preparation and what you're doing every single day because greatness is really it's just a bunch of small things that are done well stacked upon on top of each other. That's it. It's really not that hard. What You said he was almost psychotic. What's the most psychotic thing he did? >> [sighs] >> I mean but him [clears throat] and I have gotten in so many different arguments and and I mean it's almost like we were like a married couple, you know, just like fighting over like the smallest little things. Like it's crazy. Um I mean >> [sighs] >> I remember there was a time uh I forget how old I was, but I mean like I said, I was a little [ __ ] And we were doing 400s free long course and I was supposed to be going like under 425 or around like 420 and uh I I wasn't. I was just going slower and just pissing him off on purpose. Um and he was like, you're going to go you're going to go these times or we're going to start over. And I had like 10 or 15 seconds before the timer went off where we were about to do the next repeat. And I looked at the clock and I just didn't say anything. And right as I was getting ready to push off I just said, no. I went back under the water >> [snorts] >> and naturally when I was training I always had to bilateral breathe. I had to breathe on both sides. Um so he was on my left side. I'd have to go three right, three left. So I ended up switching it that day cuz I went three on my right and then I went to my left and saw him the first time and I was like, [ __ ] that, I ain't going back to that side. I [laughter] just kept breathing to my right. I'll never forget he came down to the other end and was chasing, throwing his arms up in the air, whistling whistling like crazy. And he threw a bunch of kickboards and pull buoys down on top of me as I was pulling or as I was flip turning. I just kept swimming. I just kept swimming. Um we had a talk shortly after that. >> [laughter] >> Uh we both expressed some frustration, but um you know, again, I think it was just the passion that we both had and and I wouldn't change it because, you know, I'm sure I did some things that that pissed him off and frustrated him throughout our time together and likewise, there were some things that he did that pissed me off and and you know, if you asked me if I would change anything that I did or do it differently in any way, shape, or form, I wouldn't. Um not at all. You know, I think it's it's kind of allowed me to be the person who I am now and feel comfortable in my own skin. So, and I was able to learn a lot through again, the craziness that we went through. I mean, I've thrown water bottles at him. Like, it's it's been bad. Like, I I'm really sorry, Grandpa. Sorry I'm bringing this all out. People have seen videos of it, though. Cuz that was on a video. That was on a documentary that we did. No, it's just it it's it's the passion and again, it's the frustration because for us, we were trying to work in hundreds of a second, right? You know, like two of my Olympic medals were won combined by 5/100 of a second. Right? I won the 2004 100 fly by 4/100 and the 2008 100 fly by a 100. Right place at the right time? Yeah, for sure, but it's also hitting the wall at the right place at the right time with the right amount of force, momentum, and speed, but it's also being able to judge when to go all out and when not over swim a race and this, that, and the other. So, again, it's like everything we did, it was it was a full-blown chess match. And we were able to damn near perfect it. Or I only I broke seven world records and won eight gold medals. It should have been eight for eight in '08, but it was eight for seven in '08. So, but yeah, it was it was awesome. And I think it again, like having the opportunities that I had later in life, whether it's '04, '12, or '16, I don't like talking about '12 cuz I hate that Olympics cuz I didn't swim very well. Um but it wouldn't have been possible without those things that I did back in the early 2000s, right? Like, you know, from '04 or 2000 to '04 and then that transition from '04 to '08 when we were at University of Michigan and and you know, we assembled the training group that we had there with I mean, that was one of the most iconic training groups, you know, in my opinion, that we've had. There was every single day, there was there was a handful of the guys that were just going at each other. And by by saying at each other, it was just competition after competition after competition every single stroke that you took during practice. And it was it was something that I just thrived from. I loved being in that kind of environment. You know what I really love about you and your coach partnership, the more I read about it. I'll tell you what I really love about you and your coach. You both kept each other on very high standards. There was an incident I was reading where he didn't show up because he was sick and you texted him that why would I have a coach if I have to coach myself? >> [laughter] >> So, I said like, I was ruthless. Like, I was absolutely ruthless. I was such a jerk. But it was like any any time that I had the chance to come back at him, I took it. Um and I was like I remember that. I was like, why the hell am I swimming for somebody else? Like, you're my coach. Like, if you're not here, why the [ __ ] am I here? I think I literally said that. Um also to the point because I I knew it would piss him off. Like there would be times where I would just say things on purpose to make him mad. Because it was fun and I just enjoyed it. I enjoyed getting under his skin. And I also knew that if I did ever want to get kicked out and I didn't [clears throat] like the practice that I could make him pissed off and say something and he would he would he would toss me. So, there weren't many times like that. But yeah, I mean, I there I knew what to say um to get a reaction. And that's what I wanted. I wanted a reaction. And one thing that you just mentioned and your coach, you guys did almost every day. There was a video tape technique, the visualization in your head. Walk me through it. If somebody who's watching this right now someone like me who wants to become an absolute champion in whatever they're doing. What [clears throat] is that visualization technique? Like, what would you do sitting down in your room every day? I would just lay down. It would be like you know, like if I'm getting ready to go to practice or, you know, if I just have like 30 minutes to lay down on the couch or lay down on my bed and just visualize, it would just be So, what are you thinking? Let's say just walk me around. Yeah, yeah. It would be like What's going on in your head right now? Like in a perfect situation, like say I'm swimming the 200 butterfly. If I'm swimming the 200 butterfly, like what does a perfect race look like? A perfect race looks like a great start, good entry, eight to 10 dolphin kicks, pop up right before 15 m, take 16 to 17 strokes that first 50, hit the wall with speed and momentum on a full stroke, um get out into open water, kind of make the the rest of the competitors deal with my wake and my waves and make them fight through that so it's harder for them and they have to use more energy. Um hitting the wall, breaking a world record, how the race doesn't or, you know, yeah, I mean, like the perfect scenario. Like, no matter what it is. Are you going in for a work pitch and you're trying to get your company to or you're trying to get another company to sign your company? Yeah, then it's a home run. Like the, you know, how like the perfect video is your vision of it going perfectly how you want it to, how you dream it to be. How you don't want it to go is >> [snorts] >> you get touched out by a 100th of a second because you screwed up a wall or you misjudged a turn or you didn't have the right start or your preparation wasn't good. Your warm-up wasn't good. Right? Like, all of those things. So, it's trying to almost really make sure your ducks are in a in a line and every little small piece of that puzzle is fit into the right spot. And then how the race could go would be what if I wake up and they don't like all of a sudden they don't have the same food that I've been eating every other day. Or what if I wake up 20 minutes late? Or what if my suit rips? Or what if my cap rips? Or what if I get sick? Right? All of these things are already played out. So, once I get to the Olympics or once I get to World Championships, if it does happen, I'm like, all right, cool. If I get sick, Doc, what do I need to do? Right? Like, we got team doctor. Doctor, what do I need to do to make sure I can get out there to compete and be my best? Um all of those Yeah, I mean, it's again, it's it's another form of preparation because I feel like if you get into a situation that you're not prepared for or you haven't thought of, then you're not able to be your best self. So, I guess in a long way of saying it, it's controlling the controllables. You know, like controlling the controllables is something that that a dear friend of mine, Greg Harden, taught me back in 2004. And it it's really just such an easy quote and a powerful quote because you can really relate it to so many things in life. Right? Like if I'm thirsty, right? You saw my water just explode cuz I was trying to break the ice. So, I'm going to have a drink of water. Like, if I'm tired, I'm going to go take a nap or I'm going to go to bed earlier tonight than I did last night. It's literally that simple. What do you need to get ready for a meeting? X, Y, and Z. You have a list. Do those three things. If you don't do those three things, you're not fully prepared. You're going to go to that meeting and you're going to be like, "Ah, [ __ ] I wish I would have done that." Well, tough break cuz you didn't. Right? So, and if you don't learn from doing it that way to get ready for the next time, then what are you doing? Right? So, it's it's it's just it's different ways to look at preparation. And for me, again, like I became obsessed with it because I wanted to have the opportunity to be great. I didn't want anybody else to take that opportunity from me. I wanted to earn it. So, I prepared and I worked harder than anybody else did. Period. But would you play every day in your head that you're winning the perfect race? No, that's just I mean, that's just like that's just for big meets. Like, I'm just doing I'm just visualizing for big meets. I'm not doing it for every day. Like like I'm not laying in bed tonight and being like, "What's a perfect day tomorrow? Not tomorrow. Should I go tomorrow? What's Like, no. Like, it's like it's more it's more just like 6 months before a race, before a big meet. Like you know, just kind of getting ready into that mindset because when that moment comes, again, like, yeah, World Championships, you get a little bit more often than the Olympic Games, but the Olympic Games, you got to wait 4 years. You know how long 4 years is to just have a chance to go compete and represent your country the Olympic stage? Like, it sucks. It's awful. But like, that's what I'm saying. Like, if you're not prepared, somebody else is. Especially at that level. Right? Cuz people do obsess. Right? And winning a gold medal, it's what? To have the chance Well, to win a gold medal, it's less than 1% of 1%. >> [snorts] >> So, but for 6 months, you would play the perfect perfect hiccups, the failure every day in your head. There was an incident where you won a gold even when your goggles almost broke like they were what there was water inside your goggles. You couldn't see there was blackout and you still won. How many times did you play that in your head or how many times did you practice with broken goggles before even you actually get there? Well, I think you know when my coach broke my goggles and I had to swim a race without having a pair of goggles. I think taught me to always have a backup pair and when that happened I was just like oh [ __ ] Okay, I guess I got to figure out what I'm going to do and I think for me at that time I reverted back to what I did in training because every single one of my 200s throughout my career every one of my 200 butterflies throughout my career when I was competing first second third and fourth 50 all were the same strokes. 16 17 18 and then 19 or 20 depending on how many kicks I took off the last one. So I was like all right cool. I'm just going to revert back to what I do because in training we do these things called stroke and time 50s. So if you're trying to go 30 seconds then you take 20 strokes. 29 19 28 18 27 17 So for me naturally I just started counting my strokes after the first well I guess right when I dove in because I realized >> [clears throat] >> I started counting my strokes as soon as I dove in because I realized that they weren't going to stop leaking and also I was unable to take my goggles off. Because when I would swim I would wear my goggles one cap two cap another cap so I couldn't rip all of it off and swim with no cap or goggles it would just it would it just wouldn't be good. So I ended up counting my strokes at the first wall 16 second wall 17 third wall 18 fourth wall is 19 or 20 I don't remember. Um but ended up yeah winning a gold medal breaking a world record um and you can go back and look at that video. I I was honestly pissed after I saw the time. Why? I could have gone faster. I should have gone faster. I I think I could have gone at least a half a second faster than that for sure 100% just because of the goggles. Yeah. I was I was firing on all cylinders going into that Olympic Games. But why would you be pissed? When you broke a world record you won the gold. I wanted to go faster. That's me. Like honestly I didn't hit the goal that I wanted right? The goal the goal is hitting a certain time. It's not winning it's not winning a gold medal because I know if I get to a certain time I'm the only one that's thinking about doing it. I'm the only one that's doing stuff every single day to get there. So if I hit that time the rest will take care of itself. Nobody else nobody else will win that gold medal if I do that time. And what was going on in your head at that microsecond when you knew that goggles have Did you did you go like oh [ __ ] what do >> nothing I can do. I need to do? There's nothing I could do at that point. I couldn't that was out of my control. The only thing I could do was what was in my control and that was try to win the race with what was at hand. I knew I was the most prepared person there. I just had to worry about my stroke. I had to worry about counting my strokes. That's all I did. 16 17 18 and then bang 19 20 ripped off and I was like 151 5 >> [snorts] >> I should have been 150 point. Should be one 150 for sure. I thought honestly like I I truly thought I could break 150 in the 200 butterfly at some point in my career. I only went 151. I think I could have gone a second and a half faster at some point in my career. That's insane even after breaking a world record or winning gold you would not be happy about it. But it's the goals right? Like it's you know like like for me like I I just held myself to such a high standard and I put the most pressure on myself. Like didn't matter what everybody else was saying or doing. The the the one person who put the most amount of pressure on me was me. Because it is in my control right? I'm not going to be able to skip two weeks a month six weeks eight weeks and just wake up one day and break a world record. You have to do the work. If you're not doing the work then skip it. Do something else. Tell me Tell me about that phase which a lot of people call it the alien phase. >> [laughter] >> Which was year 2008 Beijing where you won eight gold medals. You competed in eight races and you won all of them. There's never been an athlete in the world till now who has ever gone that far and have won so many medals. What was what was that phase like that alien phase where everything you touch you would turn it into gold? I mean yeah during those games and like I guess from like 07 08 like those two years like I I truly felt I felt unbeatable in the pool. I really did. Um What did you feel like? Unbeatable. Like I literally felt like there wasn't a single soul on the planet that could touch me that could beat me. Um I just felt like I was super prepared. Um you know everyone says it's like that 10,000 hour mark right? Like I think 2007 was my 10,000 hour mark. Um and then it just it just kept getting better. I mean 2007 those world championships in Melbourne were I mean I might even say performance wise were better than what they were in in in Beijing. Um I mean the times that I did the amount that I was breaking world records by I mean they were body lengths behind me. Um Yeah I mean again it's just it's the preparation that I had done years prior that were showing. That's all it was it's right? Like you know if you go out and buy a piece of property and you want to build a house you can't snap the fingers right? You just got to put it up one brick at a time and that's what I did one day at a time leading up to that point. You know 2004 was you know obviously a learning process for me be yeah it was a great experience winning six gold medals. Um but I think it truly just prepared me for what was coming in 2008 to make sure that I was overly prepared obsessively prepared for every small detail. Um because I knew how hard it was going to be to win seven let alone eight. What was different about that phase? Uh I mean coming off of 2004 obviously you know it was my first gold medal right? So you know 18 19 years of dreaming of winning a gold medal and it happens. Um you win a couple of them. You get off of that Olympic Games and then literally every headline is Michael Phelps fails because he doesn't win seven gold medals and I'm like >> [laughter] >> what are you talking about? Like this is a joke. Um honestly though like uh you know to just have the chance to win one was incredible but you know winning six in an Olympics and then winning eight in the next Olympics. Um Yeah I was I I was just prepared. You know like I mean even even going back to like the the the quote that Ian Thorpe said going into 2008. He said no one will ever gold medals in an Olympic Games. Like that for me is motivation. Right? Like everything I did during that time you know truly was about trying to be as perfect as I could perfect was going eight eight for eight. Um but again like I was competing against somebody who was pretty much fresh every single time right? Like people go to the Olympics and they might swim one or two races. Exactly. >> Right? And I'm swimming a total of 17 races 18 races in eight days. Yeah that was like insane right? That that's fascinating. Like it's a full training week. Like during that week with all of the warm-ups warm-downs so that's that's 2000 2000 meters for warm-up 2500 meters for warm-up 2000 meters for warm-down is doing it twice a day plus all the racing. I mean I'm swimming I was swimming like 60,000 meters during a competition week. There are people that don't even train 60,000 65,000 yards or meters a week period. So again like everything I did from 2000 to the first step I got with Bob from him destroying my strokes and recreating them into what they were throughout my whole entire career got me to that point. >> [snorts] >> So you started competing on 10th August and then 10 11 12 13 there was only like one day I think 15th August was off. I had a morning off. >> Yeah. I had a morning or I had a a morning or an afternoon cuz the finals were in the morning for that Olympics where typically they're in the afternoon or night time. Uh I had one I typically had one session off every every uh every major major competition. Uh Um and and by that point I needed it. Yeah. [laughter] I was so tired by the end of those meets, man. Um You slept Did you sleep the whole day like on 15 when you got got an off between those events? >> Uh no, like during an off day I would wake up normal time. Uh I would I would stay on that schedule, that routine. I would wake up and I would have like a morning like a splash. And then I literally would do 800 to 1,000, like not much. I was supposed to do more, but I never did. Um and I would just go and just kind of feel I'm just feel how I was feeling, see if I needed to get a little massage or whatever I needed to stretch or something before the finals. Um go have lunch, watch a movie, play some games. I don't know. Like we were always playing spades or risk, hearts. Um some kind of game to kill time, but yeah, I mean it was it was a pretty normal day. I wouldn't really I wouldn't think about much and by the time the afternoon came we we always have a team meeting before we would go over to the final session. And you know, from the team meeting it was headphones go on. No one talks to me or I don't talk to anybody. They might talk to me, but I I ignore absolutely every noise. Mhm. Get to the pool about 2 hours before my race, stretch for about half hour, dive in the warm-up pool 90 minutes before my race, and then do my warm-up, get out, dry off, put warm clothes on 30 minutes before my race, get my racing suit on, jump back in the pool for 3 to 500, just kind of stroke play, kind of feel my body, make sure everything's going, get out, walk up for the race 15-20 minutes beforehand, and then bang, that's it. You get either I I mean my races were anywhere from 47 seconds to 4 minutes and 3 seconds. That's it. Did you ever feel like taking an off in that alien phase? Taking off? Yeah. Like an off day of training or maybe just you didn't feel like like today is not the day. I'm sure there must have been at least one day where you must have been >> mean, yeah, but I think the goals that I had were were too big. They were big enough where I couldn't take a day off. I couldn't. What did you tell yourself on the day when you were feeling sick and you didn't want to get out of bed? >> I mean, for me like when I when I would get out of bed, the first things I see are my goal sheets. Like literally first thing I wake up, they're on my desk, they're on my bedside table because I you know, for me I want to know why I'm waking up. What is the purpose of that day? Yeah, I might feel like [ __ ] but if I can get 10% if I can get 20% if I can get 50% out of that day, then isn't that better than getting zero? Yeah. You know? Like as long as you're not taking a step backwards. Cuz if you are, try to flip that car around and go a different direction, right? Try something different. Um because taking steps back just it it it crushes you. Absolutely crushes you. So what does a goal sheet of an of a world champion looks like? I mean, for me it was they were bro- all of my times were broken down into 50s, right? So like if I'm swimming a 100, it's broken down the first 50 and the second 50, and then it has my total time. They're they're down to the hundredth of a second. Every day you would have this? Well, I just see like I see So I would have short-term goals and long-term goals. Long-term goals are what times do I want to swim at the Olympic Games or World Championships? And then the short-term goals are what times do I need to hit this season in order to give me a chance at the end of the season to rip 154 in the 200 IM or 155 in the 200 IM back there. Um And then yeah, it's just I mean and then I basically I I I I wrote I I would write down basically 100, 200 free. He would always make me do the mile at least once a year. I [ __ ] hated the mile. Uh 100, 200 back, 100, 200 fly, 200, 400 IM cuz I'd swim all of those races throughout the year. And I'd sometimes swim a breaststroke race, too. Um But yeah, I mean like I think for me, you know, for the 400 IM I knew that I had to I knew that they like my strokes had to be at a certain level in order to do the times that I needed to do in the 400 IM, right? To be able to add those times together to make the right splits. And it all came what I was doing it it it all came from what I was doing every single day, right? Like if I'm going in like if I'm going in for a practice, my coach like Bob would show me the practice. He'd be like, "These are This is what we're doing today. We're doing 10 400 back or 10 200 back short course, and then the last one I want you to try to go 140." I'm like, "All right, cool. Let's go 140." Um and I would start and just descend my way down to that time, and he would give me goals every single day of what to hit in practice because those goals then were hand in hand with what I was trying to do long-term, right? And if I did that every single day and I did, whether it was freestyle, backstroke, breaststroke, butterfly, IM, it didn't matter. I was doing those times back to back to back to back to back to back to back every single week. Why? Because nobody else was. Mhm. What's the definite What's What's the definition of insanity? Doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results. I was doing different things over and over again expecting different results. I knew I was going to get them because again, there wasn't another person on the planet that was more prepared for me in those last in those two decades of my of my career on this planet. There just wasn't. That's why I was able to have the success that I did. Was it all about competing yourself, the old version of you, or was it about competing with other people who would come as your competition in the Olympics game? I was competing >> were you competing about against yourself or others? No, I was competing against the clock. That's it. Against the clock. That's how my That's how my time or that's how my sport was defined. By a time. How fast can you go? And again, like I was saying, if the times that I dreamt of and I believed that I could go were faster than the world record or faster than what other people believed, if I did those times, guess what would happen? I'm going to win. Yeah. Right? So for me it it it became a numbers game. But it's said that you knew your competition better than you they knew themselves. >> sure. Why would you say that? You would study on them? I mean, I knew how they would swim their races. It's easy, right? Like I I feel like Like would you study your competitors, the way they would do style? What would you study about them? >> Well, I mean like I I always I learned things from them, right? Like I would go back and you know, if you talk about Ian Thorpe, like I would learn from his freestyle and how he swam and his kick and his underwaters and you know, just how his body moved in the water. Um you know, I took a lot of core exercises from different countries that I would see on the pool deck. Um just because like if they're doing it, then I can do it and I can beef it up. Like I can alter the exercise and change it and make a hybrid. Um but like Lochte, like I mean, I swam against Lochte for 15 years, 10 or 15 years, right? So um you know, I felt like I knew him almost better than he knew himself just because of the history that we had. And of course, yeah, like I watch a lot of tapes. I I I mean, I I I don't you know, I'm I I don't have any connection to the sport anymore now. Um you know, there are a couple international people that I talk to, couple international athletes that I talk to, but I have zero connection with anything to do with the sport of swimming anymore. Um But yeah, it was it was just I don't know. Studying them? Yeah. You just I mean, cuz it's like you could you yourself can only do so much, right? So it's like if if you can't learn from others or others that have come before you, then you're just never going to grow. And again, like it was always back to that goal of wanting to change the sport and take the sport to a different level and You're talking about Ian Thorpe. He also said it very highly unlikely that you will win eight golds. Yeah, win eight golds. >> you you taped that quote on your locker room. Why would you do that? It was in the back of my locker in in Michigan in 2008. Um because it it it's kind of like the same story back to my teacher, right? Like my teacher telling me I'd never amount to anything and proving her wrong. And if a fellow competitor and a friend of mine is telling um Excuse me, if a friend of mine and a competitor of mine is telling reporters that it's not possible to win eight gold medals, guess what? I'll have the last laugh. Um and I it's you know, like Thorpe is a great friend of mine, always has been. Um but even like after after that and then after 2016 in Rio cuz he said no one over the age of 30 will win an Olympic gold medal. Um he he sent me a text uh right after and I was giving him [ __ ] for it, and he was like, "Dude, he's like, I know how your mind works. I was just giving you a little extra motivation." Um but no, I I I you know, I I always like proving people wrong especially Especially if they doubt something that I think is possible. Um You know, I think one thing my coach took out of my vocabulary was the word can't. Cuz if you say you can't do something, you can't. Your mind has already made it up for you. Like you made that choice, right? Don't do it. Don't think about it anymore. Don't think about whatever that was. Move on from it. Because it's going to be exponentially harder since you told yourself you can't. Right? So, it's such a negative word. So, we removed it from my my vocabulary and and you know, for me I I I just believe that whatever I did, whatever I dreamt of, excuse me, let me take a step back. Whatever I dreamt of was possible based off of the actions that I did, right? It's back to that quote. Actions speak louder than words. Right? What you do every single day, how you show up, when you show up, it matters. And it's going to matter at the most important time, right? So, um yeah, that's it. Would you ever imagine yourself losing a race? Uh sure. Yeah, why not? What if I lost? Yeah, because I never want it to happen. So, of course. Yeah. Do you do that? >> Yeah. And >> What if I get second by a hundredth of a second instead of winning by a hundredth of a second? Yeah, I'd be [ __ ] pissed. But, the only way I can change that is controlling what I do every day. So, maybe I have to prepare better, right? And was there any Well, I think I think to I think to better answer that, like I remember my losses more than I remember my victories. Because the feeling of defeat I never wanted to have again. Right? Cuz it feels like [ __ ] when you lose. It feels like [ __ ] when you fail. It's not It doesn't feel fun, right? So, for me, I looked at it as if I failed, it was my fault. Because I didn't prepare. I didn't take the time to focus on the small details that are going to help me down the road. So, those defeats motivate me even more to never have that happen again. What's about losing that you hate so much? I just don't like the feeling of somebody being better than me. >> [laughter] >> Um no, honestly, I I think that's what it is. Like I just I like you I think it's it's like you ask the greats or the goats of all sports or probably all walks of life. And and I think they'll say they hate losing more than they enjoy winning. It's just that just the feeling of defeat. Like I just I don't like it. It's just something I I don't enjoy. And if there's something in my control, in my power to make sure that I have a chance at least to succeed, then that's what I'm going to do. And if I fail and I fail because that person is more prepared than me, then so be it. But, I'm not going to show up unprepared, right? Like it's just it's not who I am. Did you use any psychological warfare sort of tactic against your competitors which you secretly would use >> No. >> and not share it with anyone? >> No. I mean, I would say some people probably think me doing my back slap and clearing my throat on the block was a form of trying to get in their head, intimidation. It wasn't. Um you know, the clearing of the throat, I don't know when that came in. I feel like it was maybe post 2008. Um but my arm slaps, I I've been doing [clears throat] those since I was 8 years old, 7 years old. I've done that my whole life. You know, so it's just a part of what I needed to do in order to get as prepared as I can be. And if what I'm doing is messing up them, it's not my problem. It's not my fault. Right? Like I'm taking care of me. I'm taking care of me and I'm focusing on what I need in that moment. I don't give a [ __ ] about my competitors in that moment. I could care Why? Why would I care about them? Right? Like I'm trying to beat them. I don't care what they're doing. I don't care anything about them. When I'm on the pool deck, it is a full-blown war. I want to absolutely destroy somebody. Was there anyone you secretly feared as a competitor? Feared? Feared? No. I beat everybody. Even in your head, you would not be like, "Maybe this new guy or somebody's better than me or someone's going to beat me." If I was prepared, why would it matter? You didn't care. I didn't care. I don't care who you were. If I smelled blood in the water, I'm going to destroy you. I was like a shark. Yeah. Tell me the first time you won the gold medal at the Olympics. How did you feel? >> Oh, four? First time ever in 2004. Because that's what you have a That's what you wanted, right? >> Yeah. Uh Yeah, I mean, I mean, going back to 2004, 400 I am. I was in the center of the pool. Went 4082. 408.26, maybe. Somewhere in there. Um and I remember turning back around and seeing that I'd broken the world record, won the gold medal, first gold medal. Um we were in outdoor pool uh in Athens, Greece. The Olympics had started. Um I remember looking up and just looking for my mom, my mom and my sisters. I caught them and then I was on the award stadium or the award podium hearing the national anthem play. Where actually the US went one, two in that race. Uh Eric Vent got second from Lane Warner eight. I forget which one it was. Uh and he came jumping across the lane line and we hugged and celebrated. It was [ __ ] awesome. Like that kid is one of my favorite humans on the planet. I love training with him. Um And then once we got our medals, uh that was day one of the meet. Um I had the 200 free, I think, the next day or a relay the next day or something. And I remember sharing it with my mom through a chain-linked fence. I passed it through her um through the fence. And and we just talked about it and we shared the moment for I think it was a total of like 30 seconds. Um and I was like, "Mom, I did it." Um and that was it. And we from that point, I heard my coach whistle. Bob whistled. He had a couple different whistles that meant a couple different things. Uh and he whistled like the one trying to get my attention. And I turned around. And he just pointed at the warm-down pool. And he's like, "Let's go. You got to warm down." Cuz I hadn't warmed down from the race yet. So, I needed to clear my lactic acid to get ready for the next day and my next race. Um so, I think that was the first time for me where I learned that um I couldn't get caught up in that one moment even though it was special. Right? Like yeah, I just won my first gold medal. But, I had five or six other races that I had to get ready for. So, that gold medal is like, "All right, finished. What's next?" On to the next race. Um you know, like it's crazy. Like I Throughout my career, I I I don't know like in the actual moment with a gold medal around my neck, like I you know, I don't think I really enjoyed it or like lived it as much as I did in 2016. Um because I knew it was my last one, period. Like I knew I wasn't coming back. And you know, that's why I kind of let the tears started coming out during the national anthem when I was in the podium just because of you know, going back and thinking through every little moment throughout my career. But, you know, in 2004 and 2008 and 2012, I couldn't use those emotions up in that way because I had so much other stuff going on that week. So, it really was trying to manage those physical and emotional or that physical and emotional energy throughout, you know, an 8 to 10-day program. Um so, yeah, you you really couldn't I couldn't, excuse me, um enjoy those moments as probably as much as probably people would have thought. Um but I think for me uh after retiring, I've been able to kind of go back and um put myself back in those spots. And um it's been really cool. Uh just being able to look at each medal and you know, tell you exactly what was going on in my head or you know, who I was swimming against, who I touched out, this, that, or the other. Um just trying to break it all down, right? Because I think that at times there's there's still that like that thought you're like, "Is that a dream? Or did that really happen?" Right? So, you still got to pinch yourself every now and then. But, winning the gold medal, getting it >> But, winning the gold medal, getting it in your hand, you're standing at the in your hand, you're standing at the podium, podium, >> and you're not thinking about that >> and you're not thinking about that feeling of winning. You're just thinking feeling of winning. You're just thinking about, "Okay, tomorrow, next race." about, "Okay, tomorrow, next race." Yep. >> Yep. >> I can't. >> I can't. >> I could not do it. >> I could not do it. >> I couldn't. >> I couldn't. >> Because I couldn't I I I had to >> Because I couldn't I I I had to >> I had to make sure that like in that >> I had to make sure that like in that moment, I had to make sure that I was moment, I had to make sure that I was >> getting the right recovery, >> getting the right recovery, >> right? Like if I was finished for the >> right? Like if I was finished for the night and I had warmed down already, night and I had warmed down already, then I'm like, then I'm like, >> "All right, >> "All right, >> am I getting back on the massage table >> am I getting back on the massage table >> and then right into the cold tub to then >> and then right into the cold tub to then go back and eat? Am I eating first? What go back and eat? Am I eating first? What am I doing? am I doing? >> Is there food here? Do I have to eat a >> Is there food here? Do I have to eat a power bar or something like that now or power bar or something like that now or Carnation Instant Breakfast just to give Carnation Instant Breakfast just to give me some energy before I get back to the me some energy before I get back to the village?" village?" >> Um >> Um yeah, >> yeah, it it was >> it it was >> it was one thing in front of another. >> it was one thing in front of another. >> I mean, like >> I mean, like you >> even in 2012, right? Like >> even in 2012, right? Like >> 2012, I swam the 400 >> 2012 I swam the 400 IM, which [ __ ] I still probably shouldn't have swam it. Um but whatever, it was a learning experience and I did it. Uh where I got fourth. I got fourth and missed the podium. Um and that was the very very first day of the Olympics, right? So at that point it's like, "All right, well that didn't go as planned. So now how do you redirect yourself and your energy to make sure that doesn't affect the rest of the meet." So I was like I had literally I just threw it out. Just forgot about it. Next day I came back and had an unbelievable split on the relay. Um and then kind of built to momentum back from there, but yeah, it's it's it's you know, really living in the moment and I think it's you know, I still haven't mastered it, but you know, I think throughout my career it was something that I was really good at. Um I think there's a book that I have probably read a dozen times, The Power of Now, Eckhart Tolle. Like it's just it's incredible. Like there's something really to living in the moment um and I think it's something we can all learn from. Like I mean, you guys have heard me talk about having four kids and those four kids do it perfectly. They live in the moment every single waking moment of their life right now. Um and I you know, I think it's there's just a lot of power to that. It's something that I try to do at every moment of my life. It is hard um this complicated world that we live in, but um I think there's if that's one thing that that you can try to do, it's living in the now. I think it truly allows you to be the best version of you. What about the time when you won all eight gold medals? After that, there was nothing to look forward to at least during that time. Did you not enjoy that as well? There wasn't. There was nothing to look forward to because at that point I had just done something that no one else had ever done that I had literally set my life to do, to try to do. So did you enjoy that feeling a lot? Yeah, it was awesome, but I was just like, "All right, cool. Like I just need space from the sport." And that's when I kind of like stiff-armed the sport a little bit and just wanted to be me. I wanted to be a kid. Um and I learned a lot about myself that way, too. >> [laughter and gasps] >> Put myself in a couple different situations throughout my life, but um yeah, it was I mean, but but I think like I if I can understand a little bit of what you're asking. Like for me like the sacrifices that I gave up throughout my career allowed me to have the opportunity that I had in the swimming pool. Mhm. And I don't regret giving those things up. You know, like for me throughout my career it it yeah, would it have been cool to go and like party with your friends or go on a road trip for the weekend? Yeah, sure, but isn't it really cool winning 23 Olympic gold medals, too? You know, so like for me like it was almost like I have this opportunity to do something really special and uh I'm going to have that same opportunity to do whatever they're doing right now in 15 years, right? So it's just like kind of lock in and just go. >> [snorts] >> You know what's funny because you just said 23 gold medals. I was listening to one of the uh somebody was explaining an interview which you gave and the interviewer asked you that you've won 28 28 Olympic medals in your life. >> No, yeah, 23 Olympic >> And you said, "No, just 23 that counts." Yeah. I don't even know how many how many silver and and bronze I have. It's it's >> anything which is not gold doesn't count two and three and >> four. in your life? >> I mean, it's it's like I said, it's like yeah, I don't I don't like to lose. So Uh silver is losing? You're second. Right? You got second place. >> [snorts] >> You lost. Third place? You lost. Yeah, it's losing. I don't talk about the other five. I went 28 for 30. Here's a better way of saying it. I medaled in 28 out of 30 of my races at the Olympic Games. 23 are only the ones that we need to talk about. Because again, like I I was unprepared in the other ones. Somebody else was more prepared than me. So in 2012 when the bad phase started and you won four gold medals in the Olympics and you were sad about it. Yeah, it sucked. I just want But at the But like that point like I think I was sad because I just wanted to be done with the sport. You know, like I I think at that point I was just over it. I wanted I wanted space. I wanted to be a kid. I wanted to just grow up a little bit and not just literally all be about swimming and like I think for me I think that's what that's when I really kind of stiff-armed the sport, so you will. Um because all I had done was swim swim swim swim swim. And I think at that point I was like, "What else do I need to do? There's nothing else that I need to accomplish." And I just kind of rebelled a little bit and did my own thing and then um you know, realized that I still wanted it and came back in '16. You know, but like yeah, in 2012, you know, the 200 fly if I if I don't [clears throat] have a shitty first, second, third turn or hit the finish with any amount of momentum, I won't win the race. If I win that race, I probably don't come back in '16. Mhm. Right? So it's like for me like 2012 was I I think that that Olympics was worse than the 2000 Olympics and I came back with six medals. I hated swimming then. I hated it. I didn't want to do it. I did it because I had to. I was contractually obligated. I had to. If I didn't compete, I lost all my sponsors. So I had to swim. I did the best I could with not doing much work. I mean, I literally trained I trained less than 2 years of that 4 years from 2008 to 2012. And you still ended up with four golds. I don't think I was 100% in Beijing. Yeah, but we we >> [laughter] >> I want to talk about that. I want to talk about that, right? It's I broke my wrist 6 months before the Olympic Games. In '08. Before the Beijing? Mhm. I spent 3 days out of the water and had surgery 24 to 36 hours afterwards. Mhm. Right there. There's a scar still. And there's still a pin in there. I have a titanium pin in there. Slipped on a piece of >> you you gave what you had. I slipped on a piece of ice. My wrist snapped back and there was a I basically looked like a golf ball coming out of my wrist. And I just popped it I popped it back in, held it had surgery the next day. Yeah. But no, I like I I truly don't think I was >> months before the Olympics >> 6 months before trials. 6 months before Olympic trials. And you still ended up winning eight gold medals. >> Eight. All eight. Mhm. But I was probably only at But here's what I don't understand. >> 85%? 90%? >> [clears throat] >> But okay explain me this, right? 2004, six medals. 2008, eight medals. >> Yeah. Gold. 2012, four gold medals. And 2016, again. But you say that only 2016 where you've given 100%. Yeah. >> Before that, London was not 100%. >> London definitely wasn't. >> Beijing wasn't 100%. Athens wasn't 100%. >> '04 was. Um but like '08 like yeah, I don't think I was I was fully at 100%. No. I could That's what I'm saying. Like you asked earlier like the 200 butterfly. Yeah, I was pissed even though I broke the world record and won the gold medal because I knew I could have gone faster. Like that's what I'm saying. Like I I truly coming off of 2007, that was like arguably probably better than 2008 even though I only won seven. Um because we we I could have I should have won Um so disqualified. Uh yeah, 2007 was unbelievable. Like that best year of my career um and then break my broke my wrist 6 months before trials. Uh yeah. That that recovery was was brutal um but we did whatever we could and and yeah, it ended up working out, but yeah, it could have it could have been better. And I think being better I say from a times spirit like a times perspective, a times standard. I think the times that I did there would have been faster had I not broken my wrist, but that was my fault, so whatever. What was going on in your head in 2016 because I heard there was a competitor who said "Michael Phelps should shut up." And then he you were sitting in the in the ready room. >> don't think he said shut up. I don't remember hearing that, but >> Like somewhere there was like he said he there was a news about it, right? And then he was shadow boxing shadow boxing in front of you and you gave him this fell face look. >> Yeah, I I mean like for me back then it it was kind of crazy like a guy I was on a mission. I didn't care really what anybody said, what anybody did. If anybody got in my way, I was I was going to push you out. Like I I was just on an absolute tear. I was feeling the best I'd felt in years um and I I remember seeing Chad uh shadow boxing. I was just like, "What are you doing?" Like I don't ever remember seeing him do that once um prior to that point. Uh and it almost looked like it was on purpose. Like it looked like it was on purpose right in front of me. Um and honestly for me it just pissed me off. It pissed me off more than anything else. Uh and I knew there were going to be two cameras, one in each corner. Uh and I looked at both of them and I was like, "Oh shit." Cuz [clears throat] I saw the red lights. So if you see the red light on a camera on the bottom, you know that thing's rolling. So I was like, "Man, they're going to have a field day with the reaction and the facial expressions that I had because >> [snorts] >> I I don't really hide my emotions well, right? Like if I'm pissed off you're going to see it. If I'm happy you're going to see it. Like it's just how I am and and um yeah, I think that the the best photo for me coming from those games or one of the best photos was him looking like this during the race as I'm a half body length ahead of him. Yeah. >> And I end up winning the gold medal, right? So I think that's a lesson within itself, right? Focus on you and what you're trying to do. Not what others are doing and don't try to intimidate other people because it's only going to waste your time and your energy. Yeah. >> That's it, right? Focus on what you got to do. Period, cut and dry. I was watching that video where in the 2016 Rio you race and just like the moment you touch the wall, you just come up and you do this. Oh yeah. >> You knew like >> knew. You knew that you won. >> knew. Yeah, I mean 0.01 second which made you win. Like just It It was It was a close one. 200 fly had it been 201 m, I probably would have lost the race, but yeah, I just you just know in those moments. But 0.01 second, how did you know that you won it? Like it was just 100th. It was pure instinct to go that extra half a stroke. I mean yeah, like in in 2008 when I did take that half stroke, yeah, you had to because it was all situational. Like you know, for me in that moment like I start judging the wall 10 to 15 m before the end of the race, before before I get to the wall. So um unfortunately I didn't judge it well. I didn't judge it very well there. Um but I hit it at the right spot, right? So I was always taught to hit it with force. You got to hit it with force cuz if you kind of baby it, it doesn't stop until you really hit it. So um the half stroke that I took won me the race. And the glide stroke that Michael Cavic took lost him the race. Mhm. If you look at his video, he's going like this. He's finishing like this. His body, his neck, and his hands are completely out of body position. So um >> [clears throat] >> yeah. 100th of a second. >> See, you were so focused on yourself, you didn't care about anyone else. But what in your body knew that you won because until you look at the board or anything Yeah, I mean I >> don't know. Like you just came out of the water >> No, it was I mean the I mean the very first thing that I do when I finish is snap turn and look at the board. >> Okay. I know where my line is. I know where my name where my name is. And if there's a if I see this, yeah, that's it. Like I mean like most like there there are some races where I'll win by a body length or two body lengths and you don't even have to look at the scoreboard, but like some of the races like I mean I think if you add it's like six of my races together, eight of my races No, it's probably six. I think it's six or seven of my races together, the margin of victory I think um six or seven of my Olympic gold medals, the winning margin is less than half a second. So yeah, it's preparation. Yeah, it's being in the moment, the right place at the right time, but um I mean I I I practiced those finishes that I did in every single one of my races 1,000 times, 2,000 times, 5,000 times, 10,000 times. So when I'm in the race, you don't think. You just be. That is it. And what goes on in your head when you're on the podium? >> Nothing. I'm singing the national anthem, that's it. No, before even the race is start. >> Uh when I'm on the block? >> On the block? >> Nothing. Zero. Not thinking of >> so many people. >> anything. >> I'm not thinking of my start. I'm not thinking of my my breakout, my kicks, my streamline. I do my normal stretch my legs on the block, my arm slap. That's it. I don't think about anything. There's nothing I can change in that moment. But right before the race, you're not thinking about winning, you're not thinking about beating. No. Competing. >> Mhm. I'm like a dog trying to get out of the cage. Just let me out of the cage. Like I'm just No. I'm Like again, I'm the shark in the water. If I smell the smallest ounce of blood, I'm going to destroy you. And I mean like you can tell people who are nervous being in the ready rooms, too. It's It's obvious. Like that's why I always have my headset on. I don't want to talk to anybody. I just want to listen to my beats, listen to my my like the the lyrics or whoever I'm listening to at that moment just to put me in the moment to to put me in the zone. And [snorts] you you would listen to Till I Collapse? Eminem. I mean it was everybody. I mean um Wayne. >> me top three songs you always listen to. Or you used to do? >> Uh man. Before you would get out >> It's all Lil Wayne stuff, to be honest. Uh a lot of it was. Uh let's see. Lil Wayne was uh well, Till I Collapse is Eminem. Mhm. Lil Wayne was Uh I guess like A Milli. Like those were big ones back in Young Jeezy was a big one. Uh I mean everyone of Eminem's albums. Mhm. Uh Biggie. Um There There wasn't really one song that stuck out. It was kind of like a hodgepodge of of songs that uh were just going through I don't know, kind of whatever whatever would put me put me in the mood. Uh and honestly I I think during each competition week it would really get narrowed to >> [snorts] >> probably just a handful of songs and I would just repeat. Like I'd get off the bus, restart the song. Walk out to the pool deck, restart the song. And I always try to get in a certain spot of the song before I took it off. Just to give me one final little >> [snorts] >> little motivation before I dive. I mean Here's the last question because I know we're running out of time. It's if somebody listening to this and want to build the same kind of mindset that you have, the same kind of things that you have done in your work, they want to do it in their work. Okay. And they could just pick up three specific principles or habits or rituals or mindset from you, what would that be? Let's say we call it the Phelps protocol. Like what would that be? >> it's so hard to narrow into three different things. I mean I think one of the things that I really live by is dream, plan, reach, right? Like we all have a dream of something that we're trying to accomplish and if you don't have a plan that goes along with that dream, then you're going to be [clears throat] lost, right? And then honestly it's just reaching for it. Look, like was I afraid to drop all of my other sports and just focus on swimming? Of course. But I also was able to learn that it was the best decision for me, right? Like I found something that I love, I enjoyed, and that I was pretty good at. You know, so I think it's really just keeping it as simple as you possibly can, right? Like what is your goal? And figure out the smallest little details that you need to get to get there, to reach it, to to just have a chance to get there, right? I think that's the biggest thing is is people want a chance to do something, but if you're not doing the things that it takes to give yourself a chance, all of this is words, right? It's back to that action speaks louder than words thing. Um I think it's just what you do, holding yourself accountable for things. Um but again, it's it's it's what can you do right now? It's not yesterday, it's not tomorrow. It's right now. It's It's trying to simplify every little small detail. Like again, like I I say this 100 times. Like my career wasn't wasn't rocket science. It was just a lot of small things that were done well over time. That's it. Like don't have an excuse. If you didn't want to do it, say you didn't want to do it. Then if you didn't want to do it, then your goals didn't matter. Right? If your goals are something that matter to you, you'll never have an excuse. Period. Like for me, like you asked me, yeah, there were days where I wanted to hit snooze and not get out of bed. But those goals were important to me. That's what pushed me. It's the same thing now. Like how can I give my kids the best chance to succeed in this world? What does that look like? I don't know. I don't have the answers, but I'm trying to figure it out. Right? Like for me, that's all I think about. It's all my wife and I think about every day. It's how can we do the how can we be the best parents to give them the best life to succeed however they want, whether that's in the pool, whether it's in the classroom, I don't care. Right? I just want them to be the best version of themselves. So it's what do you do every single day? What are your daily habits and what are your daily routines that prove that you are trying to be successful and you are trying to be great. Because if your habits aren't aligned with those things, then you need to look at yourself in the mirror and figure out what you're doing and who you are or your goals need to change. I don't know. I don't know if that answered the question, but it's just like you know, I always hear people like whether it's a weight loss goal or this, that, or the other. Like, "Oh, I really want to do this." And you're like, "Well, what have you been doing?" "Nothing. I've been meaning to do this or I've been meaning to do this." No, just go do it. Right? Like literally just go out and do it. Like I didn't want to go into the gym today. My head just wasn't wasn't great this morning, whatever. But I went in and I got done and I was like, "Woo." Like I I feel different, right? Like you feel different when when you set your mind to something. Like I get in the gym this morning, I was like, "This is going to suck." I was like, "I'm going to put my music on. I'm going to put McAfee on TV. I'm going to stretch." And by the time I stretched, I was excited. And I was ready to try to get stronger. 20 minutes, 30 minutes before that, I did I didn't even want to come into the gym, right? So it's just It it It's crazy to me that if you try to or if you force yourself to do something that you don't want to when it's uncomfortable, how quick your mind and body comes back around and you're not in that shitty mood or depressed mood or unhappy mood. Like for me, like that's that's why I work out still every day. Because if I don't, then I'm not giving myself the best chance physically and mentally. Because for me, for 25 years of my life, I swam damn near every day, right? So some form of exercise. So that's what I have to do now. For me to be the best version of me, that's there's no excuses. I have to get in there for an hour, hour and a half plus, no matter what. No matter how I feel. Tomorrow, I'm going to be sore as hell from the weights today, but you know what? I get through tomorrow, the next day is going to be even better. And then I am going to build muscle. I am going to get stronger, right? It's that process of it. It's the process of things that I think people don't like or skip or give up after they're a week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks into it. Trust it. It takes 30 days to create a habit. It takes 30 days to get rid of a habit. For me, throughout my career, I would do different habits. So when I'm in the pool, I would learn and create different habits for strokes or repetition or streamline or kick outs or this, that, and the other. So naturally, after a 30-day period, it becomes second nature. You don't have to think about it. It's a part of who you are, right? So it's I don't know. It I mean, I guess the easiest way to say things is simplify it, right? Like break your goals down in the smallest terms, smallest things, and take a little bite out of each each part. If you try to conquer everything at once, you're just going to fail and spin, and it won't be good. But what now? Doesn't it feel empty because there's nothing to look forward to? What are you looking forward to now? Uh I mean, for me, everything I'm trying to do in the mental health space, um you know, suicide is the second leading cause for people 10 to 34. Like that that's frightening. Um you know, for me, as somebody who has thought about suicide multiple times, um What got you out of it? What's that? What got you >> brought me out of it? Um just being able to learn more about who I am and and being okay and and understanding that it's okay to share and talk about the things and the feelings that I experience. Where in the past, all I would do is compartmentalize and shove them down. Um but you know, I think over the last 10 years, I've learned that it's okay not to be okay, right? Like it's okay to have a hard day. But what did I learn from it? How can I try to be better? How can I try to not have it affect the whole entire day? Who can I talk to? Who can I go see? What can I learn more, right? Like for me, like I just want to ask questions. Um and I know there are so many people in the world that are probably suffering from similar things that I do, whether it's depression or anxiety. Um and for me, I I I I want them to get the help the the help and care that they need and deserve. Uh you know, for me, being able to see a therapist or having the chance to see my first therapist has saved my life. And who knew that just talking about things would make you happy and make you freer and just be your normal self. Um so yeah, for me, it's you know, chapter one of my swimming career, yeah, it was incredible and and um you know, it's something I dreamt of. Um but you know, for me, I think the next chapter of mental health and and um you know, trying to destigmatize it still or get people the help and care they need and deserve or trying to learn more about it. Um I I just think it's so unknown um to so many people and and um you know, the you know, I guess for me, it's it's trying to help people become vulnerable. Cuz vulnerability is a scary word, right? But if you're if you allow yourself to become vulnerable, then you allow yourself to grow and you allow yourself to change. And sometimes change isn't always bad, right? So um yeah, I I could talk for hours about it, but like for me, the mental health journey and what I'm trying to do on that on that front, um yeah, it's it's there's no timetable, right? Like it's just going to be a never-ending thing and uh something I look forward to. Um you know, for me, again, being able to save a life is way bigger than ever winning an Olympic gold medal. You know, I heard the president of this country say something like depression isn't a thing. Get busy working so hard that depression doesn't even affect you. And in your case, you were working so hard and still it hit you. Do you Do you buy what he was saying? >> Um you know, I I depression is something. It is a thing cuz >> Do you think it won't affect people if they're like just busy working day in and day out? Um I think you you know, for me, I can speak for my personal experience. Um you know, when I did that, I just ended up stacking a bunch of stuff on top of each other and compartmentalized it inside of me and then I just erupt like I'm a volca- like a volcano. So um for me, like when I go through depression, it feels like the room is shrinking on top of me. Uh and I do feel all alone. Um so I you know, and it doesn't matter if I go work out or if I go and do my everyday errands, I still feel like [ __ ] And I still feel really dark and the thoughts that I have aren't good, but I think for me, it's when I do have those moments, I'm lucky that I have the tools that I have to help me get out of them. And that is whether it's going to talk to my therapist, whether it's calling my therapist, whether it's calling my men's group that I'm a part of, whether it's calling a friend, whether it's talking to my wife, whether it's journaling, whatever it is, there are things that I have. Whether it's getting in a cold tub, whether it's sitting in the infrared sauna. There are so many different things for me as a self-care checklist that if I'm not doing those every day, then I'm not being the best me. I I guess I agree to disagree with this comment then because I think if you have your routines and you stick with your routines, then yeah, you're going to be the best version of you and you'll learn more about yourself. But if you do compartmentalize and shove the things down, they're only going to come back stronger and harder. Um so yeah, I mean, I I I wouldn't ignore depression spells. I wouldn't ignore anxiety. Um you know, I those two are the things that I can talk about because I struggle with them. Um you know, I get >> [gasps] >> I get anxiety when I have to go and speak in front of 2,000 people, right? Like but it's it's a part of me. Like that's how you'll see me. Like I'll spin my ring or I have like I have like crystals that I'll take and I'll just kind of ground myself. They're just things that I've learned that that work for me. Um Yeah, and I I mean, my depression and anxiety are never just going to leave me. I can't snap my fingers and have them disappear at will. I can't. It's not possible, right? They're a part of who I am. Um I I don't want to say I'm thankful for it, but um they challenge me. They challenge me to learn more about me and how I work. And I guess I'm thankful for it. It sucks sometimes and it's really hard going through uh the roller coasters of emotions that I go through. Um but again, that's what makes me who I am. And you know, I I I enjoy looking at myself in the mirror, this white beard and this man bun. You know, I don't see what I used to see. And I used to see somebody with a pair of goggles and a swim cap on, not somebody with feelings and emotions. So yeah, the journey that I'm on now is is a pretty cool and it's a pretty fun one. You get some bumps along the way, but it's part of life. Thank you so much. I'm thankful for this conversation. Thank you. Thank you for coming here. Thank you for spending time. Thank you for sure taking us through your mindset. For sure. It was really an honor to to to talk to someone like you. You know, in the middle of the conversation, you said somewhere every time you go ask the goat of anything, they're going to say this, this, this. And in my head, I'm like, "Well, I'm asking the goat." >> [laughter] >> But it's true. Like honestly, like I've gotten to know a bunch of them and like a bunch of the real goats and and like legendary athletes and you know, our our mindset and how we go about our everyday routine or schedule or job is pretty similar. It It's you know, it's Again, that's why I always say it's not rocket science. It's really not. Um it's a mindset and it's making a choice, right? If you had to give a name to your mindset, what would it be? >> [snorts] >> I don't know. I have no idea. I'm bad at that. Think about it. >> no, I mean, I don't know. It's just you know, it's I I But you know, like when you say something like that, that I I don't know if I can take credit for all of my stuff, right? Because you know, what we were talking about uh knowing your competitors, it it it's I I've been able to take, borrow what I've learned, you know, from whether it's other athletes or mentors or just people that I've come in contact with and I've been able to put it into my terms and my way and understand it that way, right? So I think it's you know, I I I I used to hate talking to people. I used to hate talking in general. But I enjoy having like really fun conversations with people and and you know, for me I'm still looking for you know, different ways that I can change my routine to better myself, right? From from any conversation that I have, right? Whether it's a retired basketball player, football player, baseball player, politician, it doesn't matter, right? Like like like for me I'm just always I'm always trying to learn. I'm always trying to be better, right? So you know, I I and in that process, yeah, I'm going to be my authentic self, but yeah, whatever we learn, I think from everybody and you know, the people listening here, like you know, I wouldn't say do it exactly my way, but you know, the things that that we talked about today, if there's something that fits in a spot in your life or fits in your mindset or fits here, like I I do it because right? Like that's what we're all here to do, right? We're we're here to help each other, right? And try to help each other be great, right? Like I I couldn't have done this by myself. Yeah, like I swam my ass off in the pool for 20 years, but like it wasn't all me, right? So I think the more that we can work together, the more that we can accomplish. Thank you. Thank you so much. How are you? Good. I just got done a >> [clears throat] >> a workout. Sorry, I'm late. It's all right. It's all right. I mean, just got out of a workout and now we're good to go. All good. Is you >> [laughter] >> It's all right. It's all right. I know it's it's very American thing to get ice with water. In India, they they don't give you water with ice. Even though we are much hotter country than you. I said over [snorts] there. Thank you so much for watching this podcast till the end. Please let us know in the comments what all did we do right so that we can improve and keep doing that better and what all did we do wrong so that we never repeat it. And at the same time, please give us suggestions of who's the next guest that you want to see on the podcast >> [snorts] >> and don't forget to share this episode with at least one person who will get some insights because one conversation is enough to give people enough ideas to change their lives. I'll see you next time. Until then, keep figuring out. And also, don't forget to subscribe the channel. >> [music] [music]
